{"screen_id": "S24310", "doi": "10.3390/ma17235847", "title": "Antibacterial Properties and Biocompatibility of Multicomponent Titanium Oxides: A Review", "publication_date": "2024-11-28", "type": "article", "venue": "Materials", "language": "en", "abstract": "The simple oxides like titania, zirconia, and ZnO are famous with their antibacterial (or even antimicrobial) properties as well as their biocompatibility. They are broadly used for air and water filtering, in food packaging, in medicine (for implants, prostheses, and scaffolds), etc. However, these application fields can be broadened by switching to the composite multicomponent compounds (for example, titanates) containing in their unit cell, together with oxygen, several different metallic ions. This review begins with a description of the synthesis methods, starting from wet chemical conversion through the manufacturing of oxide (nano)powders toward mechanosynthesis methods. The morphology of these multicomponent oxides can also be very different (like thin films, complicated multilayers, or porous scaffolds). Further, we discuss in vitro tests. The antimicrobial properties are investigated with Gram-positive or Gram-negative bacteria (like Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus aureus) or fungi. The cytotoxicity can be studied, for example, using mouse mesenchymal stem cells, MSCs (C3H10T1/2), or human osteoblast-like cells (MG63). Other human osteoblast-like cells (SaOS-2) can be used to characterize the cell adhesion, proliferation, and differentiation in vitro. The in vitro tests with individual microbial or cell cultures are rather far away from the real conditions in the human or animal body. Therefore, they have to be followed by in vivo tests, which permit the estimation of the real applicability of novel materials. Further, we discuss the physical, chemical, and biological mechanisms determining the antimicrobial properties and biocompatibility. The possible directions of future developments and novel application areas are described in the concluding section of the review."}
{"screen_id": "S24550", "doi": "10.1149/ma2024-02422851mtgabs", "title": "Doped Rutile TiO2 Nanowires As Supports for Durable Proton Exchange Membrane Water Electrolyzers", "publication_date": "2024-11-22", "type": "conference-abstract", "venue": "ECS Meeting Abstracts", "language": "en", "abstract": "Proton exchange membrane water electrolyzers (PEMWEs) are a promising technology to achieve green hydrogen. Currently, PEMWE cost is dominated by the high loadings of ultra-scarce Ir-based catalysts, which remains the only metal that demonstrates a promising balance of activity and durability for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER), the limiting reaction of PEMWEs.1 Aimed at improving the activity and durability, current PEMWEs use high Ir loadings up to several mgIr cm-2. The high Ir loadings provide a pathway for electronic transport through particle-particle contacts, while yielding a thicker catalyst layer to maintain electronic conductivity as the nanoparticles degrade through operation. The DOE Hydrogen Earthshot aims to reduce the cost of green hydrogen by 80%. To realize this ambitious goal, Ir loadings must be significantly reduced, while maintaining conductivity and durability, which remains a major challenge. In this study, we demonstrate the effectiveness of stable, conductive, Nb-doped rutile TiO2 (Nb-TiO2) nanowires as supports, for durable PEMWEs at low Ir loadings. The Nb-TiO2 nanowires provide an enhanced electron transport pathway through a 1-D morphology, reducing particle-particle contact resistances. Through a photodeposition-based approach2, a continuous layer of IrOx nanoparticles is formed on the surface of the Nb-TiO2 nanowire. The activity of the IrOx/Nb-TiO2 nanowire is evaluated in both a rotating disk electrode and PEMWE configuration, outperforming an unsupported commercial IrOx catalyst. Accelerated stress tests cycling between 2.0 V and 1.45 V holds over 300 hours, show the superior durability of the IrOx/Nb-TiO2 nanowire catalyst at a low Ir loading of 0.12 mgIr cm-2 , compared to the commercial IrOx catalyst. Our results demonstrate a promising platform to achieve highly active and durable Ir-based catalysts in practical PEMWEs at low Ir loadings. Acknowledgement This research is supported by the Laboratory Directed Research and Development (LDRD) program at Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) (20240061DR) and US Department of Energy (DOE) Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Technologies Office (HFTO). References: [1] Thao, Nguyen Thi Thu, et al. Small Science 4.1 (2024): 2300109. [2] Hoffmeister, Darius, et al. ChemRxiv. (2024)"}
{"screen_id": "S17578", "doi": "10.3390/min12121575", "title": "Polysynthetic Twinning of Diopsides in the Niewang and Tatliksu Nephrite Deposits, Xinjiang, China", "publication_date": "2022-12-08", "type": "article", "venue": "Minerals", "language": "en", "abstract": "Diopside, an important component of the crustal and upper mantle, plays an important role in the formation of nephrite. Polysynthetic twinning in natural diopside, especially from skarns, has rarely been systematically researched. Here, the polysynthetic twinning of natural diopside was investigated in two skarn-type nephrite deposits (Niewang and Tatliksu) in Qiemo, Xinjiang, China. Petrographic observations revealed periodic alternations of dark–light lamellae under cross-polarized light and parallel striations under plane-polarized light, whereas backscattered electron images indicated high homogeneity, which suggested a type of mechanical polysynthetic twinning. According to the optical indicatrix, twins were predominantly oriented as a (100)[100] system. Raman spectra and chemical data show that pyroxenes in nephrite are close to the Di end-member with 0.90–1.04 a.p.f.u. Mg and 0.98–1.05 a.p.f.u. Ca. Both diopside and tremolite from Tatliksu contain slightly higher Fe than those from Niewang. Given the seismic origin of mechanical clinopyroxenes twins, twins of studied diopsides are likely to be attributed to Paleozoic-Mesozoic paleoearthquakes in the Altyn Mountain. A shear stress ≥ 140 MPa and a differential stress greater than 280 MPa are suggested as conditions linked to generation of the twinning of diopsides in the nephrite deposits. The replacement of diopside by tremolite along its twin planes highlights the potential gemological implications, as such replacement by tremolite probably facilitated the formation of dense, fine fibre textures in the nephrites."}
{"screen_id": "S15366", "doi": "10.1002/9781119407652.index", "title": "Index", "publication_date": "2018-11-16", "type": "paratext", "venue": null, "language": "en", "abstract": "validation of, 44-48"}
{"screen_id": "S01223", "doi": "10.12789/geocanj.2014.41.034", "title": "Igneous Rock Associations 12. A Geologist’s Look at Archaeological Ceramics and Glass", "publication_date": "2014-03-04", "type": "article", "venue": "Geoscience Canada", "language": "fr", "abstract": "Ceramics and glass represent synthetic metamorphic rocks and obsidian, respectively. Consequently, it is not surprising that many archaeologists have collaborated with geologists on projects dealing not only with lithic artifacts, but with ceramic and glass objects as well. This paper presents an overview of these latter two materials from a geological perspective, considering in turn how they are characterized and classified, their ages constrained, provenance and in some instances use determined, and how they were made. SOMMAIRELa céramique et le verre représentent respectivement des roches métamorphiques et l'obsidien synthétiques. En conséquence, il n'est pas étonnant que beaucoup d'archéologues aient collaboré avec des géologues sur des projets traitant non seulement des objets façonnés lithiques, mais également des objets en céramique et en verre. Ce document présente un aperçu de ces derniers deux matériaux d'une perspective géologique, considérant comment ils sont caractérisés et classifiés, leurs âges, provenances et emploies parfois déterminés, et comment elles ont été faites."}
{"screen_id": "S22675", "doi": "10.1111/jace.19861", "title": "Effect of oxygen substitution and oxycarbide formation on oxidation of Ti 3 AlC 2 MAX phase", "publication_date": "2024-05-02", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of the American Ceramic Society", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract MAX phases, ternary transition metal carbides and nitrides, represent one of the largest families of layered materials. They also serve as precursors to MXenes, two‐dimensional (2D) carbides and nitrides. The possibility of oxygen substitution in the carbon sublattice, forming oxycarbide MAX phases and MXenes, was recently reported using secondary ion mass spectrometry. However, while the effect of oxygen substitution on the properties of MXenes was investigated, little is known about its effect on the properties of MAX phases. Here, we explore the influence of process parameters (e.g., particle size, synthesis temperature, annealing time, etc.) and oxygen presence in the lattice on the oxidation resistance of Ti 3 AlC 2 MAX phase powders. We show that X‐ray diffraction measurements can identify oxygen substitution and assist in selecting MAX precursors to synthesize stable and highly conductive MXenes. Eliminating the substitutional oxygen from the MAX phase lattice increases the onset of oxidation by 400°C, from approximately 490 to 890°C. Finally, we discuss the impact of oxygen substitution in the MAX phases on the synthesis of MXenes and their resulting properties."}
{"screen_id": "S01833", "doi": "10.1556/ceugeol.57.2014.4.4", "title": "Mineral chemistry of the ophiolitic peridotites and gabbros from the Serow area: Implications for tectonic setting and locating the Neotethys suture in NW Iran", "publication_date": "2014-12-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Central European Geology", "language": "en", "abstract": "The Serow ophiolite in NW Iran, located at the Iran-Turkey border, is composed of mantle sequence peridotites, predominantly lherzolitic-harzburgite with subordinate amounts of lherzolite and dunite, and a crustal sequence made from gabbros, diabases, pillow lavas and deep marine carbonates and radiolarite sediments. The rocks appear as a tectonic mélange. This ophiolitic complex forms part of the ophiolites marking a branch of Neotethys oceanic crust in NW Iran. The chemistry of olivine, orthopyroxene and clinopyroxene in the lherzolitic-harzburgite and clinopyroxene in the gabbros suggests a supra-subduction setting for the ophiolite. The Serow ophiolite is similar to other ophiolites in NW Iran such as the Piranshahr, Naghadeh and Khoy and NE Turkey ophiolites in terms of the rock units, tectonic setting and age. The Serow ophiolite links the Iranian ophiolites from Baft in the SE through the South Azerbaijan suture to the Izmir-Ankara-Erzincan suture in the NW."}
{"screen_id": "S28666", "doi": "10.30574/ijsra.2026.18.2.0265", "title": "Charge Storage in Ti₃C₂Tₓ for Rechargeable Batteries: Recent Progress and Outlook", "publication_date": "2026-02-14", "type": "article", "venue": "International Journal of Science and Research Archive", "language": null, "abstract": "Ti₃C₂Tₓ is a representative member of a rapidly growing family of two-dimensional, layered transition-metal carbides, nitrides, and carbonitrides whose electrochemical behavior is defined by three coupled features: (i) a highly conductive metal–carbon backbone, (ii) termination-rich surfaces that govern interfacial chemistry, and (iii) a stackable sheet morphology that creates an interlayer gallery where ions, solvent molecules, and intercalants can reside. Together, these attributes produce a material platform that is fundamentally different from many other 2D solids. Graphene, for example, offers exceptional conductivity and mechanical reinforcement but has a relatively inert basal plane unless defects or heteroatoms are introduced, whereas transition-metal dichalcogenides can provide layered insertion sites but may undergo phase evolution or conversion-type processes depending on voltage window. In contrast, Ti₃C₂Tₓ combines metallic-like transport with intrinsically active, chemically tunable surfaces, allowing electrochemical function to be engineered through termination chemistry, interlayer spacing, and electrode architecture. These characteristics have enabled Ti₃C₂Tₓ to contribute to multiple battery platforms, including lithium-ion, sodium-ion, lithium sulfur, and zinc-based systems, where its role depends strongly on how it is assembled. In some cases, Ti₃C₂Tₓ acts as the primary charge-storage host and delivers fast, surface-controlled storage with high power capability. In others, it serves as a conductive scaffold that lowers polarization in electrodes built from less conductive active phases, stabilizes microstructure during repeated volume changes, and improves electrolyte wetting through hydrophilic terminations. Ti₃C₂Tₓ has also been used as a reinforcing component in hybrid electrodes, where it maintains electron percolation and reduces mechanical degradation, and as an interfacial modifier on current collectors, where it improves contact resistance and can regulate interphase formation. Across these functions, one of the most central and scientifically informative is its behavior as a charge-storage host material, because this role directly links atomic-scale surface chemistry and gallery structure to device-level capacity, rate capability, and stability. In this review, I integrate recent progress in Ti₃C₂Tₓ synthesis, processing, and characterization and evaluate, from a mechanistic perspective, how Ti₃C₂Tₓ performs as an active electrode material in divalent-ion batteries. I focus on design approaches that improve reversible capacity, accelerate transport, and extend cycle life under multivalent charge carriers, where strong solvation and electrostatic interactions frequently impose kinetic and structural penalties. I compare the dominant storage pathways in single-phase Ti₃C₂Tₓ with those in composite architectures and heterostructures, where graphene, carbon nanotubes, layered oxides, and other 2D materials are often introduced to prevent restacking, improve conductivity over practical thickness, and stabilize interfaces. Particular attention is given to how storage mechanisms evolve with electrolyte environment and operating window, including the balance between surface-controlled charging, pseudocapacitive redox at termination sites, and interlayer insertion or co-insertion phenomena that can involve solvent or protons in aqueous systems. Finally, I identify the main limitations that currently constrain practical deployment, including oxidation and moisture sensitivity, termination variability arising from synthesis history, restacking-driven transport losses, and the gap between laboratory-scale materials and scalable manufacturing. I outline research directions where microstructure engineering provides a realistic route to higher-performing divalent-ion storage, emphasizing controllable variables such as interlayer spacing and pillaring, flake size and alignment, defect populations, termination dis"}
{"screen_id": "S30079", "doi": null, "title": "Beyond Precious Metals: Engineering Cost-Effective Core–Shell Catalysts for Oxygen Evolution", "publication_date": "2025-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "CER (University of Belgrade, Institute of Chemistry, Technology and Metallurgy)", "language": "en", "abstract": "The development of efficient and cost-effective catalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is a critical area of research, particularly for applications in renewable energy technologies such as metal-air rechargeable batteries and hydrogen production via water electrolysis. To address the challenge of minimizing the use of expensive noble metals like iridium while maintaining high catalytic performance, this study introduces a novel synthesis route involving consecutive microwave-assisted hydrothermal shelling combined with aerosol-assisted calcination. This approach was employed to fabricate IrO2 shelled CoCeY oxide core composites, which are designed to serve as high-efficiency OER catalysts with significantly reduced iridium content. The synthesis process began with the preparation of CoCeY oxide supports using a one-step ultrasonic spray pyrolysis (USP) method. Aqueous precursor solutions of CeCl3, Y(NO3)3 and Co(NO3)2 were mixed in two distinct molar ratios: Ce:Y:Co = 8:2:5 and 2:8:5. The USP process was conducted under controlled conditions to ensure the formation of uniform particles with a well-defined phase composition. A thermostated furnace was used to maintain a precise conversion temperature, while nebulization and aerosol generation took place in an oxygen-rich atmosphere at a regulated gas flow rate of 2 dm³ min⁻¹. The synthesis temperature was consistently held at 800 °C, enabling the development of CoCeY (∑M) composite structures with the desired crystallinity, morphology and stability. These properties are essential for providing a robust framework for subsequent catalyst modification. Following the synthesis of the oxide supports, the materials underwent a microwave-assisted hydrothermal treatment in the presence of IrCl3. This step was carried out at a stable temperature to achieve controlled deposition of IrO2 shells onto the CoCeY oxide cores. Two distinct IrO2 molar ratios were targeted: ∑M:Ir = 3:7 and ∑M:Ir = 7:3. The resulting composite structures were designed to optimize the balance between catalytic activity and the use of iridium, a costly and scarce material. The catalytic performance of the synthesized thin-layer composites was evaluated through polarization measurements in acidic media. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) was employed to further investigate the structure-activity relationships, providing insights into the charge transfer properties and interfacial kinetics of the catalysts. These analyses revealed critical information about the efficiency and stability of the composites under operational conditions. Additionally, the study explored the impact of post-synthesis thermal treatment on the structural and electrochemical properties of the composites. By subjecting the materials to controlled thermal processing, the researchers were able to fine-tune their physicochemical state, including crystallinity, surface area and defect density. This step was crucial for understanding how thermal treatment influences the catalytic activity and durability of the composites. Variations in the molar ratios of Ce, Y and Co in the oxide supports were found to significantly affect the electronic properties and surface reactivity of the catalysts. Similarly, the thickness and distribution of the IrO₂ shells played a key role in determining the overall catalytic performance. These findings provide valuable guidance for the rational design of advanced electrocatalysts that balance high activity with cost effectiveness. By reducing the reliance on Ir while maintaining high catalytic performance, the developed materials offer a promising pathway toward more sustainable and economically viable energy conversion technologies. The interplay between composition, structure and electrochemical performance gained from this work pave the way for further advancements in the field of electrocatalysis."}
{"screen_id": "S26300", "doi": "10.1038/s41524-025-01656-9", "title": "Global atomic structure optimization through machine-learning-enabled barrier circumvention in extra dimensions", "publication_date": "2025-07-10", "type": "article", "venue": "npj Computational Materials", "language": "en", "abstract": "We introduce and discuss a method for global optimization of atomic structures based on the introduction of additional degrees of freedom describing: 1) the chemical identities of the atoms, 2) the degree of existence of the atoms, and 3) their positions in a higher-dimensional space (4-6 dimensions). The new degrees of freedom are incorporated in a machine-learning model through a vectorial fingerprint trained using density functional theory energies and forces. The method is shown to enhance global optimization of atomic structures by circumvention of energy barriers otherwise encountered in the conventional energy landscape. The method is applied to clusters as well as to periodic systems with simultaneous optimization of atomic coordinates and unit cell vectors. Finally, we use the method to determine the possible structures of a dual atom catalyst consisting of a Fe-Co pair embedded in nitrogen-doped graphene."}
{"screen_id": "S25975", "doi": "10.1039/d5ta02960k/v2/response1", "title": "Author response for \"Bridged Ov-Ru-O-Co coordination induced by Co2+δ substitution in Co/RuO2 Catalysts for Enhanced Alkaline Hydrogen and Oxygen Evolution\"", "publication_date": "2025-06-01", "type": "peer-review", "venue": null, "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S10076", "doi": "10.1021/acs.chemmater.0c01894", "title": "Active Learning Accelerated Discovery of Stable Iridium Oxide Polymorphs for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction", "publication_date": "2020-06-18", "type": "article", "venue": "Chemistry of Materials", "language": "en", "abstract": "The discovery of high-performing and stable materials for sustainable energy applications is a pressing goal in catalysis and materials science. Understanding the relationship between a material’s structure and functionality is an important step in the process, such that viable polymorphs for a given chemical composition need to be identified. Machine-learning-based surrogate models have the potential to accelerate the search for polymorphs that target specific applications. Herein, we report a readily generalizable active-learning (AL) accelerated algorithm for identification of electrochemically stable iridium oxide polymorphs of IrO 2 and IrO 3 . The search is coupled to a subsequent analysis of the electrochemical stability of the discovered structures for the acidic oxygen evolution reaction (OER). Structural candidates are generated by identifying all 956 structurally unique AB 2 and AB 3 prototypes in existing materials databases (more than 38000). Next, using an active learning approach, we find 196 IrO 2 polymorphs within the thermodynamic amorphous synthesizability limit and reaffirm the global stability of the rutile structure. We find 75 synthesizable IrO 3 polymorphs and report a previously unknown FeF 3 -type structure as the most stable, termed α-IrO 3 . To test the algorithms performance, we compare to a random search of the candidate space and report at least a 2-fold increase in the rate of discovery. Additionally, the AL approach can acquire the most stable polymorphs of IrO 2 and IrO 3 with fewer than 30 density functional theory optimizations. Analysis of the structural properties of the discovered polymorphs reveals that octahedral local coordination environments are preferred for nearly all low-energy structures. Subsequent Pourbaix Ir–H 2 O analysis shows that α-IrO 3 is the globally stable solid phase under acidic OER conditions and supersedes the stability of rutile IrO 2 . Calculation of theoretical OER surface activities reveal ideal weaker binding of the OER intermediates on α-IrO 3 than on any other considered iridium oxide. We emphasize that the proposed AL algorithm can be easily generalized to search for any binary metal oxide structure with a defined stoichiometry."}
{"screen_id": "S04599", "doi": "10.4236/msa.2017.87037", "title": "Properties of Geopolymers Made from Fired Clay Bricks Wastes and Rice Husk Ash (RHA)-Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH) Activator", "publication_date": "2017-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Materials Sciences and Applications", "language": "en", "abstract": "High cost has been pointed among factors that limit the promotion of geopolymers. To contribute to the reduction of the use of costly industrial sodium silicate in activators for geopolymers, a gel obtained with RHA and concentrated sodium hydroxide was used in the present study to develop an alkaline activator with 8 M NaOH and to produce geopolymers with crushed fired clay bricks wastes (FCBW). Characteristics of the gel were compared to that of commercial sodium silicate which was also mixed with 8 M NaOH in the ratio 1:1 to produce geopolymers. Chemical and mineralogical analyses were done on raw materials. Fourier Transformed Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR) was done on the gel, commercial sodium silicate and products. Biaxial four point flexural strength, bulk density, water absorption and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) tests were also done on products. Results showed that RHA-NaOH alkaline activator has good potential in consolidating FCBW powder through geopolymerization process which gave products that had characteristics not far from that when the commercial sodium silicate was used. The gel obtained by mixing RHA and NaOH can contribute to the reduction of the use of costly commercial sodium silicate in the production process of geopolymers. However, appropriate filtration process is needed for the RHA-NaOH gel to reduce its impurities as undissolved entities, which will consequently contribute to improve the flexural strength, the density and the microstructure of its products which were low compared to when commercial sodium silicate was used."}
{"screen_id": "S22861", "doi": "10.1007/s10854-024-12740-z", "title": "Evolution of fundamental mechanical properties with aliovalent Co/Cu partial substitution and preparation method for Y-123 system", "publication_date": "2024-05-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Materials Science Materials in Electronics", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract This study investigates the effect of aliovalent Co/Cu replacement and preparation method on fundamental mechanical performance features of YBa2Cu3−xCoxO7−δ (Y-123) ceramic system depending on the crack propagation mechanism by Vickers hardness measurements (Hv) and mechanical investigation models for the first time. All the findings are verified by the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) examinations. Besides, the electron-dispersive X-ray (EDX) technique verifies the successful substitution mechanism. Besides, the Vickers hardness parameters improve systematically with the increment in the Co/Cu partial substitution (serving as a barrier) level due to formation of operable slip systems, ionic bond formations, and decrement of stress-amplified strain fields. Moreover, the Y-123 ceramic produced by solid-state reaction method and molecular weight of 0.20% presents the densest and smoothest surface morphology with the largest particle distributions and well-linked cobblestone-like grains. On the other hand, the Y-123 ceramic compounds produced by the sol–gel method are more sensitive and responsive to the indentation test loads. All the findings are wholly supported by the mechanical performance properties, including the shear modulus, resilience, and degree of granularity. Furthermore, the mechanical models indicate that every compound prepared exhibits the untypical reverse indentation size effect (RISE). Additionally, the modeling studies display that the induced cracking (IIC) approach is found to be the most appropriate method to examine true Vickers hardness parameters in the plateau limit regions. All in all, this comprehensive study reports efficiently exploiting the process–structure–property relationships in Y-123 ceramic material design for physical science and mechanical application fields using the aliovalent partial substitution and preparation condition."}
{"screen_id": "S11880", "doi": null, "title": "Waste to fuel: Designing a cobalt based catalyst and process for once-through Fischer-Tropsch synthesis operated at high conversion", "publication_date": "2020-12-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "Open University of Cape Town (University of Cape Town)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Decoupling the deactivation"}
