{"screen_id": "S16746", "doi": "10.18006/2022.10(4).767.772", "title": "Effect of Titanium, Silver and Zinc Nanoparticles on Microalgae in the Aquatic Environment", "publication_date": "2022-08-30", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Experimental Biology and Agricultural Sciences", "language": "en", "abstract": "Metallic nanoparticles (MNPs) are commonly incorporated in products found in households, industries, and agriculture. The presence of MNPs in the aquatic environment causes damage to living organisms and pollutes the water body rendering it harmful for human consumption. Several studies have been made on the toxicity of MNPs toward microalgae. Most of these studies reported changes in the cellular structure, growth rate, pigments, proteins, and enzymatic activity of microalgae. This review paper focuses on the toxic effects of titanium, zinc, and silver nanoparticles on microalgae in the aquatic environment. A better understanding of the behavior of MNPs in the ecosystem will allow scientists to produce environmentally safe MNPs."}
{"screen_id": "S24578", "doi": "10.1016/j.apcatb.2024.124968", "title": "Photoreforming of plastic waste into valuable products and hydrogen using a high-entropy oxynitride with distorted atomic-scale structure", "publication_date": "2024-12-21", "type": "article", "venue": "Applied Catalysis B: Environmental", "language": "en", "abstract": "The persistent existence of plastic waste causes serious problems for the environment, directly and indirectly affecting the health of organisms and humans. Photoreforming is a nature-friendly method that only uses solar energy to convert plastic waste into green hydrogen (H 2 ) and valuable organic products. This study shows that a high-entropy oxynitride (HEON) photocatalyst , synthesized by the addition of nitrogen to a Ti-Zr-Hf-Nb-Ta-containing high-entropy oxide (HEO), exhibits a higher potential for the production of H 2 , formic acid and acetic acid from polyethylene terephthalate (PET) photoreforming compared to the relevant HEO. Examination of X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) and extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) by synchrotron light shows that, in addition to hybridization of 2p orbitals from oxygen and nitrogen, nitrogen atoms distort the structure and completely change the neighborhood of niobium and titanium (a main contributor to the conduction band), expands the atomic bonds of zirconium and tantalum , contracts the atomic bonds of hafnium and decreases the binding energy of titanium, niobium and tantalum . These electronic structure changes lead to a narrower bandgap and diminished electron-hole recombination, enhancing the photoreforming performance. This study introduces HEONs with distorted atomic-bond structures as efficient low-bandgap and stable catalysts for transforming plastics into high-value organic chemicals and H 2 by photocatalysis ."}
{"screen_id": "S15429", "doi": "10.7287/peerj-matsci.13v0.1/reviews/2", "title": "Peer Review #2 of \"Synthesis of nano-TiO2 assisted by glycols and submitted to hydrothermal or conventional heat treatment with promising photocatalytic activity (v0.1)\"", "publication_date": "2021-03-24", "type": "peer-review", "venue": null, "language": "en", "abstract": "TiO 2 nanoparticles were successfully synthesized by the sol-gel method employing different glycols (ethylene glycol, diethylene glycol or polyethylene glycol 300), which were heat-treated in conventional oven or by hydrothermal via, obtaining photocatalysts with particle sizes and distinct crystalline structures.HRTEM analyses showed that the oxides submitted to hydrothermal treatment featured spherical morphology, being formed by partially aggregated particles with sizes varying between 2 and 5 nm.X-ray diffractograms and Raman spectroscopy confirm that anatase was predominant in all synthesized compounds, with presence of brookite phase for samples that received hydrothermal treatment or were synthesized in the presence of polyethylene glycol with heat treatment in conventional oven.The amount of brookite as well as the cell volume, deformation, network parameters and crystallinity were estimated by Rietveld refinement.The surface area and porosity of the materials were higher when the synthesis involved the use of hydrothermal treatment.These oxides are mesoporous with porosity between 14 and 31%.The oxide synthesized in the presence of ethylene glycol with hydrothermal thermal treatment (TiO 2 G1HT) exhibited the highest photocatalytic activity in terms of mineralization of the azo-dye Ponceau 4R (C.I. 16255), under UV-Vis irradiation.This higher photocatalytic activity can be attributed to the formation of binary oxides composed by anatase and brookite and by its optimized morphological and electronic properties."}
{"screen_id": "S30403", "doi": "10.5281/zenodo.21379121", "title": "Preprint of \"Oxygen Evolution Evolving Catalysts Based on activated Ru–Ir Alloy Electrodes - An in-situ Soft XAS and operando XPS Study\"", "publication_date": "2026-07-27", "type": "preprint", "venue": "Zenodo (CERN European Organization for Nuclear Research)", "language": "en", "abstract": "In-situ formation and activation of Ru–Ir alloys into oxygen evolving catalysts for PEM electrolyzers were studied by operando soft X-ray absorption spectroscopy and Near Ambient Pressure X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy. The anodic activity of the magnetron-sputtered Ru–Ir alloy electrodes in acidic media follows the Ru content, suggesting that the initial activity of the alloy-derived catalysts is governed mainly by Ru-rich oxide-like phases. Independent contributions of the alloy components to the overall catalytic activity are also reflected in the operando spectroscopic data. In-situ O K edge spectroscopy indicates the OER activity of alloy-derived catalysts to be initially confined to Ru in an oxide-like moiety conforming to a cus arrangement encountered in rutile-type RuO2. The presence of Ir in the catalyst decreases the ability of the electrode material to stabilize hydrous oxide-like environments at the surface. This behavior is attributed to a less hydrophilic character of the Ir-containing surface oxides. Element-specific operando XPS confirms Ru to be the preferentially oxidized catalyst component, forming highly oxidized RuOx-like species. The Ir, on the other hand, changes its oxidation state to a much lower extent. The spectroscopic data conform to a model in which Ru–Ir alloys, upon activation, do not form a synergistic mixed Ru–Ir oxide phase but evolve into composition-dependent oxide-like domains."}
{"screen_id": "S18823", "doi": "10.5772/intechopen.109922", "title": "A Perspective on the Recent Amelioration of Co3O4 and MnO2 Bifunctional Catalysts for Oxygen Electrode Reactions", "publication_date": "2023-04-12", "type": "book-chapter", "venue": "IntechOpen eBooks", "language": "en", "abstract": "Metal-air batteries with the aid of high theoretical energy density and affability are trusted as propitious energy storage systems in today’s energy research. However, enforcement of the technology is still hindered by the sluggish kinetics of their electrode reactions, that is, oxygen evolution and oxygen reduction reaction (OER/ORR). Developing a catalyst with inherently greater bifunctional activity and durability is the finest solution to confront the aforementioned challenges. Transition metal oxides (TMOs) are the most appropriate choice of materials for that purpose since they are highly active, inexpensive, abundant and non-hazardous. Among the various transition metal oxides, MnO2 and Co3O4 are gaining much attention due to their superior bifunctional performance and alkaline stability owing to their structural features and physicochemical properties. With the inspiration from promoted catalytic activity of MnO2 and Co3O4, this chapter is fully devoted to these two catalysts. The activity structural relationship, recent developments and future directions of these materials for bifunctional catalysis have been discussed in more detail. Besides, the significant parameters judging the bifunctional activity, that is, phase, crystal facets, morphology, defects, strains and mixed metals oxide formations, have been illustrated with suitable evidence. In addition, the fundamentals of water oxidation and reduction reactions are explained with the mechanisms. Moreover, the physiochemical properties of MnO2 and Co3O4 materials and their influence on the catalytic activity are related for a better understanding of bifunctional catalysis. This collective perception will be highly useful for the comprehension and designing of advanced metal oxide catalysts to further improve bifunctional catalysis."}
{"screen_id": "S16992", "doi": "10.1016/j.apcatb.2022.122030", "title": "Ultralight conductive IrO2 nanostructured textile enables highly efficient hydrogen and oxygen evolution reaction: Importance of catalyst layer sheet resistance", "publication_date": "2022-10-03", "type": "article", "venue": "Applied Catalysis B: Environmental", "language": "en", "abstract": "Large-scale deployment of polymer electrolyte membrane water electrolysis, which is a promising technology for green hydrogen production, requires significant reduction of Ir in catalyst layer due to its high material cost. However, as the Ir amount in the catalyst layer decreases, number of electrically-isolated-inactive catalysts increases, resulting in poor performance. Here we show that the nanostructured textiles essentially avoids the formation of such inactive catalysts, enables unprecedented long-term hydrogen evolution with ultralow Ir mass loadings at high rates. We reveal that achieved high performance is derived from the low resistivity of prepared nanostructured textile which have a unique porous, three-dimensional structure. We also show that the nanostructured textiles facilitate simple catalyst-coated membrane production, which does not require liquid-phase processes or produce chemical waste. The method we developed can also be applied to a variety of zero-gap electrochemical conversion cells that require a high-rate catalytic reactions with small amounts of catalyst."}
{"screen_id": "S25744", "doi": "10.1039/d5ra02160j", "title": "A novel approach for the fabrication of SERS substrates based on 3D urchin-like TiO 2 @Gr–AuNPs architecture", "publication_date": "2025-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "RSC Advances", "language": "en", "abstract": "3D urchin-like TiO 2 @Gr-AuNPs (UT@Gr-AuNPs) architecture on silicon substrate was used as a SERS substrate for detection and photocatalytic degradation of R6G under UV light irradiation."}
{"screen_id": "S13292", "doi": "10.3390/catal11091035", "title": "Photocatalytic Degradation of Rhodamine B and Methylene Orange Using TiO2-ZrO2 as Nanocomposite", "publication_date": "2021-08-27", "type": "article", "venue": "Catalysts", "language": "en", "abstract": "The present research reports the synthesis of ZrO2-doped TiO2 photocatalysts at different ZrO2 contents (1, 3 and 5% wt.) synthesized by the sol–gel method. The samples were characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray diffraction, attenuated total reflectance-Fourier transform infrared, ultraviolet–visible, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and N2 adsorption–desorption analysis. The photocatalytic activity of the ZrO2-doped TiO2 was investigated against the dyes methyl orange and rhodamine B through mineralization studies. The ZrO2-doped TiO2 samples presented a semiglobular-ovoid agglomerate shape around 500–800 nm. The samples presented high crystallinity of the TiO2 anatase phase, XPS suggested the formation of Zr–O–Ti bonds and the samples were classified as mesoporous materials with slight changes in the optical features in comparison with pure TiO2. Our study shows that the ZrO2-doped TiO2 composites exhibited a higher photocatalytic activity than just utilizing the synthetized TiO2 and a commercial P25. The different degradation behaviors are attributed to differences in the textural properties, and to the different optical absorptions of the samples due to structural defects created by the level of doping of Zr4+ ions into the TiO2 lattice. Reaction kinetics parameters were calculated by the Langmuir–Hinshelwood model, and a third run cycle of the ZrO2-doped TiO2 at 1% wt. achieved a photocatalytic degradation of 78.1 and 75.5% for RhB and MO, respectively."}
{"screen_id": "S31069", "doi": "10.15083/00075097", "title": "First principles study on electrocatalyst/water interfaces for oxygen reduction/evolution reactions", "publication_date": "2016-04-14", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "Institutional Repositories DataBase (IRDB)", "language": "en", "abstract": "論文内容の要旨 論文題目First principles study on electrocatalyst/water interfaces for oxygen reduction/evolution reactions"}
{"screen_id": "S26652", "doi": "10.1002/pssa.202500181", "title": "Evolution of Non‐Volatile to Volatile Memory Behaviour in HfO2/TiO2 Bilayer Thin Film Based RRAM", "publication_date": "2025-08-12", "type": "article", "venue": "physica status solidi (a)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Achieving an optimum memory window in a resistive random‐access memory (RRAM) necessitates a comprehensive understanding of defect‐induced and interface‐mediated transport mechanisms in oxide‐based bilayer devices. This study investigates the resistive switching (RS) behavior of HfO2/TiO2 bilayer thin films, demonstrating an enhanced switching window. The films are deposited on platinized silicon substrates using RF‐magnetron sputtering in an Ar/O2 (40:1) plasma, followed by rapid thermal annealing at 300–600 °C in an N2 atmosphere. Structural, morphological, and chemical analyses are performed using grazing incidence X‐ray diffraction, field‐emission scanning electron microscopy (FE‐SEM), atomic force microscopy (AFM), and X‐ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The HfO2 (Hafnia) films remain amorphous for all the annealing temperatures, whereas the TiO2 (Titania) films exhibit an anatase phase for annealing temperatures below 600 °C and a mixed anatase‐rutile phase at 600 °C. FE‐SEM and AFM reveal densely packed, crack‐free surfaces. Electrical characterization using a two‐probe method indicates that postdeposition annealing significantly influences the nonvolatile and volatile RS modes. The devices exhibit a large switching window (>103) at an optimized read voltage (+1 V), high endurance (>200 cycles), and stable retention (>1500 s), demonstrating their potential for RRAM applications."}
{"screen_id": "S24013", "doi": "10.1021/acscatal.4c03685", "title": "Analyzing the Temperature Dependence of Titania Photocatalysis: Kinetic Competition between Water Oxidation Catalysis and Back Electron–Hole Recombination", "publication_date": "2024-10-24", "type": "article", "venue": "ACS Catalysis", "language": "en", "abstract": "This study examines the kinetic origins of the temperature dependence of photoelectrochemical water oxidation on nanostructured titania photoanodes. We observe that the photocurrent is enhanced at 50 °C relative to 20 °C, with this enhancement being most pronounced (by up to 70%) at low anodic potentials (<+0.6 V vs RHE). Over this low potential range, the photocurrent magnitude is largely determined by kinetic competition between water oxidation catalysis (WOC) and recombination between surface holes and bulk electrons (back electron-hole recombination, BER). We quantify the BER process by transient photocurrent analyses under pulsed irradiation. Remarkably, we find that the kinetics of BER (∼90 ms half-time) are independent of temperature. In contrast, the kinetics of WOC, determined from the analysis of the photoinduced absorption of accumulated surface holes, are found to accelerate up to 2-fold at 50 °C relative to 20 °C. We conclude that the enhanced photocurrent densities observed in the low-applied potential region result primarily from the accelerated WOC, reducing losses due to the competing BER pathway. At higher applied potentials (>+0.6 V vs RHE), a smaller (∼10%) enhancement in photocurrent density is observed at 50 °C relative to 20 °C. Photoinduced absorption studies, correlated with studies using triethanolamine as a hole scavenger, indicate that this more modest enhancement at anodic potentials primarily results from an enhanced charge separation efficiency. We conclude by discussing the implications of these results for the practical application of photoanodic WOC under solar irradiation, influenced by these temperature-independent and -dependent underlying kinetic processes."}
{"screen_id": "S08522", "doi": "10.1002/celc.201901342", "title": "Development of Copper Cobalt Sulfide with Cu : Co Ratio Variation on Carbon Cloth as an Efficient Electrode Material for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction", "publication_date": "2019-10-09", "type": "article", "venue": "ChemElectroChem", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract When designing a device for energy conversion, development of a highly active catalyst for OER (oxygen evolution reaction) reaction in alkaline medium is of utmost importance. For energy conversion, herein, we developed copper cobalt sulfide on carbon cloth (CC) using a simple and facile hydrothermal method. A vertically grown 2D sheet‐like structure of copper‐cobalt sulfide is observed using L‐cysteine as a sulfur source. An optimized ratio of copper(II) and cobalt(III) and the best sulfur source are found to boost the electrocatalytic activity of mixed metal thiospinel for OER. Several characterization techniques (XRD, Raman, FESEM, TEM, XPS, and ICP‐AES) were used to confirm phase purity, morphology, and composition of copper cobalt sulfides. We have established that 2D nanosheets of CuCo3Sz/CC exhibited superior electrocatalytic performance over bare RuO2 in 1.0 M KOH solution. It is observed that CuCo3Sz/CC need only 105 mV overpotential to generate 5 mA/cm2 current density. CuCo3Sz/CC is very stable and able to produce unaltered current density under an applied potential of 1.615 V vs. RHE for 48 h. Electrochemically active surface area calculation is performed for all catalysts to confirm higher electrocatalytic activity. The catalyst, CuCo3Sz/CC is used in a broad pH region using 0.5 M KOH, saline water, and 0.5 M Na2SO4 electrolyte solution to widen the applicability of water splitting. This work shows an avenue to develop active and durable electrocatalyst for OER without using any noble metal electrocatalyst."}
{"screen_id": "S04546", "doi": "10.7936/k7bv7f1f", "title": "Sub 2 nm Particle Characterization in Systems with Aerosol Formation and Growth", "publication_date": "2017-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Open Scholarship Institutional Repository (Washington University in St. Louis)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Aerosol science and technology enable continual advances in material synthesis and atmospheric pollutant control. Among these advances, one important frontier is characterizing the initial stages of particle formation by real time measurement of particles below 2 nm in size. Sub 2 nm particles play important roles by acting as seeds for particle growth, ultimately determining the final properties of the generated particles. Tailoring nanoparticle properties requires a thorough understanding and precise control of the particle formation processes, which in turn requires characterizing nanoparticle formation from the initial stages. The knowledge on particle formation in early stages can also be applied in quantum dot synthesis and material doping. This dissertation pursued two approaches in investigating incipient particle characterization in systems with aerosol formation and growth: (1) using a high-resolution differential mobility analyzer (DMA) to measure the size distributions of sub 2 nm particles generated from high-temperature aerosol reactors, and (2) analyzing the physical and chemical pathways of aerosol formation during combustion. Part. 1. Particle size distributions reveal important information about particle formation dynamics. DMAs are widely utilized to measure particle size distributions. However, our knowledge of the initial stages of particle formation is incomplete, due to the Brownian broadening effects in conventional DMAs. The first part of this dissertation studied the applicability of high-resolution DMAs in characterizing sub 2 nm particles generated from high-temperature aerosol reactors, including a flame aerosol reactor (FLAR) and a furnace aerosol reactor (FUAR). Comparison against a conventional DMA (Nano DMA, Model 3085, TSI Inc.) demonstrated that the increased sheath flow rates and shortened residence time indeed greatly suppressed the diffusion broadening effect in a high-resolution DMA (half mini type). The incipient particle size distributions were discrete, suggesting the formation of stable clusters that may be intermediate phases between initial chemical reactions and downstream particle growth. The evolution of incipient cluster size distributions further provided information on the gaseous precursor reaction kinetics, which matched well with the data obtained through other techniques. Part 2. The size distributions and their evolution measured by the DMAs help explain the physical pathways of aerosol formation. The chemical analysis of the incipient particles is an important counterpart to the existing characterization method. The chemical compositions of charged species were measured online with an atmospheric pressure interface time-of-flight mass spectrometer (APi-TOF). The tandem arrangement of the high-resolution DMA and the APi-TOF realized the simultaneous measurement of the mobility and the mass of combustion-generated natively charged particles, which enabled their chemical and physical formation pathways to be derived. The results showed that the initial stages of particle formation were strongly influenced by chemically ionized species during combustion, and that incipient particles composed of pure oxides did not exist. The effective densities of the incipient particles were much lower than those of bulk materials, due to their amorphous structures and different chemical compositions. Measuring incipient particles with high-resolution DMAs is limited because a DMA classifies charged particles only, while the charging characteristics of sub 2 nm particles are not well understood. The charge fraction of combustion-generated incipient particles was measured by coupling a charged particle remover and a condensation particle counter. A high charge fraction was observed, confirming the strong interaction among chemically ionized species and formed particles. The combustion system was modeled by using a unimodal aerosol dynamics model combined with Fuchs__ charging theory, and sho"}
{"screen_id": "S30119", "doi": "10.1021/acs.jpcc.6c01973", "title": "Origin of Capacity Fading in One-Dimensional π-Conjugated Li 3 BN 2 Battery Cathodes", "publication_date": "2026-06-23", "type": "article", "venue": "The Journal of Physical Chemistry C", "language": "en", "abstract": "High Resolution Image Download MS PowerPoint Slide Anion redox chemistry has emerged as a promising strategy for achieving high-energy-density cathode active materials beyond conventional cation-centered redox chemistries. However, the instability of oxidized anionic frameworks remains a critical challenge for practical applications. In this study, we investigate the origin of rapid capacity fading in the nitride-anion redox material Li 3 BN 2, which contains one-dimensional [−Li–N–B–N−] 2– anionic chains capable of forming π-conjugated bonding upon lithium extraction. BN-free rutile-type Li 3 BN 2 was synthesized and characterized using X-ray diffraction and 11 B magic-angle-spinning nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Chemical analysis of Li 3−δ BN 2 revealed that the lithium extraction process proceeds via oxidation of anionic chains. By contrast, the oxidized Li 3−δ BN 2 was intrinsically unstable and underwent surface-initiated decomposition with the formation of electrochemically inert BN phases. Consistent with this decomposition, the lithium-extracted sample exhibited a smaller N 1s peak area relative to the B 1s peak area than the as-synthesized sample, and a decrease in the nitrogen content by 49 mol % was observed after lithium extraction. First-principles calculations indicated that the monoclinic polymorph exhibited a slightly higher thermodynamic resistance to decomposition than the rutile- and anatase-type polymorphs, which was consistent with the experimental observations. Although BN formation could not be completely suppressed, voltage plateaus at 2.5 V and approximately 1.1 V were observed during discharge over repeated cycles. These results identify hole localization within one-dimensional anionic chains as the intrinsic structural origin of instability in Li 3−δ BN 2, providing mechanistic insights into degradation processes in one-dimensional nitride anion redox frameworks."}
{"screen_id": "S11991", "doi": null, "title": "Characterization of atomic layer deposited HfO2 and TiO2 high-k dielectrics on Si and Ge substrates", "publication_date": "2014-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "Seoul National University Open Repository (Seoul National University)", "language": "en", "abstract": "저작자표시-비영리-변경금지 2.0 대한민국 이용자는 아래의 조건을 따르는 경우에 한하여 자유롭게 l 이 저작물을 복제, 배포, 전송, 전시, 공연 및 방송할 수 있습니다.다음과 같은 조건을 따라야 합니다: l 귀하는, 이 저작물의 재이용이나 배포의 경우, 이 저작물에 적용된 이용허락조건 을 명확하게"}
