{"screen_id": "S06111", "doi": "10.1002/aenm.201800935", "title": "Ultrafine Pt Nanoparticle‐Decorated Pyrite‐Type CoS 2 Nanosheet Arrays Coated on Carbon Cloth as a Bifunctional Electrode for Overall Water Splitting", "publication_date": "2018-07-02", "type": "article", "venue": "Advanced Energy Materials", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract To improve the utilization efficiency of precious metals, metal‐supported materials provide a direction for fabricating highly active and stable heterogeneous catalysts. Herein, carbon cloth (CC)‐supported Earth‐abundant CoS 2 nanosheet arrays (CoS 2 /CC) are presented as ideal substrates for ultrafine Pt deposition (Pt‐CoS 2 /CC) to achieve remarkable performance toward the hydrogen and oxygen evolution reactions (HER/OER) in alkaline solutions. Notably, the Pt‐CoS 2 /CC hybrid delivers an overpotential of 24 mV at 10 mA cm −2 and a mass activity of 3.89 A Pt mg −1 , which is 4.7 times higher than that of commercial Pt/C, at an overpotential of 130 mV for catalyzing the HER. An alkali‐electrolyzer using Pt‐CoS 2 /CC as a bifunctional electrode enables a water‐splitting current density of 10 mA cm −2 at a low voltage of 1.55 V and can sustain for more than 20 h, which is superior to that of the state‐of‐the‐art Pt/C+RuO 2 catalyst. Further experimental and theoretical simulation studies demonstrate that strong electronic interaction between Pt and CoS 2 synergistically optimize hydrogen adsorption/desorption behaviors and facilitate the in situ generation of OER active species, enhancing the overall water‐splitting performance. This work highlights the regulation of interfacial and electronic synergy in pursuit of highly efficient and durable supported catalysts for hydrogen and oxygen electrocatalytic applications."}
{"screen_id": "S06554", "doi": null, "title": "Etude de la réactivité chimique entre les précurseurs lors de l'élaboration de verres nucléaires enrichis en molybdène", "publication_date": "2017-04-04", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "Thèses en ligne de l'Université Toulouse III (Université Toulouse III)", "language": "fr", "abstract": "Les verres nucléaires sont synthétisés par réactions chimiques à haute température entre un précurseur vitreux (fritte de verre) et un déchet calciné (calcinat) dans un procédé \\n \\nde calcination-vitrification. Le déchet est d'abord séché et dénitré (calcination) avant d'être mélangé à la fritte de verre (vitrification). Une succession de processus \\n \\nphysico-chimiques d'imprégnation, diffusion, cristallisation et dissolution, est mise en jeu afin d'intégrer les éléments présents dans le calcinat au sein du réseau vitreux. \\n \\nCes réactions, dépendantes de la composition des précurseurs et des conditions d'élaboration, doivent être complètes afin d'assurer l'homogénéité du verre et garantir son \\n \\ncomportement à long terme. Ce travail a pour objectif de déterminer les réactions chimiques entre les précurseurs et de quantifier les cinétiques réactionnelles afin \\n \\nd'identifier in fine les processus responsables de leur limitation. Un système simplifié constitué d'une fritte de verre de type alumino-borosilicate de sodium et d'un calcinat \\n \\ncontenant du nitrate de sodium et de l'oxyde d'aluminium (composés majeurs présents dans les calcinats complexes) est complexifié progressivement afin de déterminer l'influence \\n \\ndes éléments de faible solubilité, présents initialement dans les solutions de produits de fission à vitrifier. Les cas des oxydes de molybdène et de néodyme sont en particulier \\n \\nétudiés. Les conditions de formation (temps, température) des phases cristallines de type molybdates (sodium, calcium) et aluminates (sodium, néodyme) ainsi que leur domaine de \\n \\nstabilité dans les calcinats sont déterminés. Les cinétiques de dissolution de ces phases dans la fritte de verre sont modélisées. Il est montré que la dissolution du molybdène, \\n \\nmis en évidence sous forme Na2MoO4, est contrôlée d'une part par la solubilité thermodynamique du MoO3 dans le verre, indépendamment de la dissolution des aluminates de sodium. \\n \\nD'autre part, les cinétiques de dissolution de Na2MoO4 et des aluminates présentent un comportement arrhénien avec la température dont les valeurs des énergies d'activation sont \\n \\nproches de celles de la viscosité du verre. Ces travaux décrivent également les mécanismes de formation d'intermédiaires réactionnels à l'origine de la cristallisation de la \" \\n \\nyellow phase \" (riche en oxydes de molybdène, d'alcalins et d'alcalinoterreux) pouvant se former dans des verres plus complexes."}
{"screen_id": "S23075", "doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2024.114908", "title": "Different role of ruthenium and platinum defective sites on the catalytic activity for the hydrogen evolution reaction", "publication_date": "2024-06-27", "type": "article", "venue": "Catalysis Today", "language": "en", "abstract": "The reduction of protons to H2 (the hydrogen evolution reaction, or HER) is one of the two half reaction of water electrolysis. It produces H2 that can be used as an energy vector or sustainable feedstock for other compounds. Platinum electrodes are the “golden standard” catalysts. However, due to Pt cost, there is a need for cheaper alternatives. Indeed, highly active ruthenium nanoparticles are a promising alternative. In this contribution, we use DFT (PBE-D2) calculations to understand the differences in the catalytic activities of Ru and Pt materials by considering slab models containing crystalline close packed planes, terraces, steps, islands and adatoms. Results reveal that the strong adsorption of isolated H atoms on either material and on various sites prevents the hydrogen evolution reaction from taking place. Regardless of the model considered, the formation of a monolayer is also too favorable, thus suggesting that higher coverages are needed before HER onset. The adsorption energies of H atoms exceeding the monolayer on platinum's crystalline surfaces, defective steps and terraces are very close to the ideal value, consistent with platinum's high catalytic activity. These results outline that the presence of lowly coordinated metal centers has little effect on the reactivity of Pt. The adsorption energy of extra H on Ru surfaces depends on the adsorption site: On non-defective sites, the adsorption of the extra H is unfavorable, leading to inefficient catalysts. In contrast, the adsorption on defective sites is favorable and close to the ideal value, thus suggesting an enhancement of the catalytic activity when Ru coordination decreases. These results outline that the reactivity toward hydrogen of Ru materials is more sensitive to surface morphology than Pt-based ones. Indeed, the presence of low coordinated centers is larger on Ru nanoparticles, thus rationalizing their high HER catalytic activity."}
{"screen_id": "S20921", "doi": "10.3390/polym15224400", "title": "Preparation and Photovoltaic Performance of a Composite TiO2 Nanotube Array/Polyaniline UV Photodetector", "publication_date": "2023-11-14", "type": "article", "venue": "Polymers", "language": "en", "abstract": "TiO2 has great potential for application in UV photodetectors due to its excellent photoelectric response. In this work, composite nanomaterials of TiO2 nanotube arrays (TiO2 NTAs) and polyaniline (PANI) were successfully prepared on titanium sheets using an anodic oxidation electrochemical method. The results showed that the TiO2 NTA/PANI composite materials had excellent UV photosensitivity and responsiveness and good stability and reproducibility. This was mainly attributed to the p–n heterostructure formed inside the TiO2 NTA/PANI composites that hindered the recombination of photogenerated electron–hole pairs and improved their utilization of UV light. This work provides a theoretical basis for the application of metal oxides in UV photodetectors, which is important for the development of UV photodetectors."}
{"screen_id": "S09270", "doi": "10.3390/nano10020378", "title": "Carbon Sphere Template Derived Hollow Nanostructure for Photocatalysis and Gas Sensing", "publication_date": "2020-02-21", "type": "article", "venue": "Nanomaterials", "language": "en", "abstract": "As a green and preferred technology for energy crisis and environmental issues, continuous research on photocatalysis and gas sensing has come forth at an explosive rate. Thus far, promising synthetic methods have enabled various designs and preparations of semiconductor-based nanostructure which have shown superior activity. This review summarized various synthetic routines toward carbon sphere template derived hollow nanostructures and their successful attempts in synthesize doping, solid solution, heterostructure, and surface modified nanostructures for heterogeneous photocatalysis and gas sensing. Moreover, the challenges and future prospects are briefly discussed. It is eagerly anticipated that this review may broaden the view and in-depth understanding of carbon sphere template derived hollow nanostructures while expected to have further progresses in heterogeneous photocatalysis, gas sensing and other related fields which will make great contributions to their application."}
{"screen_id": "S05776", "doi": "10.1016/j.jpowsour.2018.04.010", "title": "Electronic coupling induced high performance of N, S-codoped graphene supported CoS2 nanoparticles for catalytic reduction and evolution of oxygen", "publication_date": "2018-04-11", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Power Sources", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S04411", "doi": null, "title": "Hybrid Molecular Beam Epitaxy of Complex Oxide Heterostructures with Ultrahigh Electron Density", "publication_date": "2017-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "University of Minnesota Digital Conservancy (University of Minnesota)", "language": "en", "abstract": "University of Minnesota Ph.D. dissertation. January 2017. Major: Material Science and Engineering. Advisor: Bharat Jalan. 1 computer file (PDF); xxvii, 214 pages."}
{"screen_id": "S23277", "doi": "10.1002/ange.202412139", "title": "Insulator‐Transition‐Induced Degradation of Pyrochlore Ruthenates in Electrocatalytic Oxygen Evolution and Stabilization through Doping", "publication_date": "2024-07-23", "type": "article", "venue": "Angewandte Chemie", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract Ru‐based pyrochlores (e.g., Y2Ru2O7−δ) are promised to replace IrO2 in polymer electrolyte membrane (PEM) electrolyzers. It is significant to reveal the cliff attenuation on the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) performance of these pyrochlores. In this work, we monitor the structure changes and electrochemical behavior of Y2Ru2O7−δ over the OER process, and it is found that the reason of decisive OER inactivation is derived from an insulator transition occurred within Y2Ru2O7−δ due to its inner “perfecting” lattice induced by continuous atom rearrangement. Therefore, a stabilization strategy of the Ir‐substituted Y2Ru2O7−δ is proposed to alleviate this undesirable behavior. The double‐exchange interaction between Ru and Ir in [RuO6] and [IrO6] octahedra leads the charge redistribution with simultaneous spin configuration adjustment. The electronic state in newly formed octahedrons centered with Ru 4d3 (with the state of eg′↑↑a1g↑ eg0) and Ir 5d6 (eg′↑↓↑↓a1g↑↓ eg0) relieves the uneven electron distributions in [RuO6] orbital. The attenuated Jahn–Teller effect alleviates atom rearrangement, represented as the mitigation of insulator transition, surface reconstruction, and metal dissolution. As results, the Ir‐substituted Y2Ru2O7−δ presents the greatly improved OER stability and PEM durability. This study unveils the OER degradation mechanism and stabilization strategy for material design of Ru‐based OER catalysts for electrochemical applications."}
{"screen_id": "S05266", "doi": "10.1016/j.nanoen.2017.11.077", "title": "Structure-dependent performance of TiO2/C as anode material for Na-ion batteries", "publication_date": "2017-12-06", "type": "article", "venue": "Nano Energy", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S11313", "doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2020.148829", "title": "Photoactivity of an anodized biocompatible TiNbSn alloy prepared in sodium tartrate/hydrogen peroxide aqueous solution", "publication_date": "2020-12-25", "type": "article", "venue": "Applied Surface Science", "language": "en", "abstract": "A bioactive TiNbSn alloy was anodized in an electrolyte of sodium tartrate containing hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). The photo-induced characteristics of the anodized alloy were explored by focusing on its crystallinity and electrochemical conditions. The electrolysis curve of the anodization exhibited a higher voltage in the TiNbSn substrate than in the pure Ti substrate. Highly crystallized porous rutile-structured TiO2 was formed on TiNbSn, whereas relatively low-crystallized glassy anatase-structured TiO2 was formed on Ti. The absorption spectra of the oxide, formed on TiNbSn, revealed a steep absorption decrease with increasing wavelength while an explicit transition was not observed for the oxide formed on Ti. The anodized TiNbSn alloy exhibited superior photoactivity and generated hydroxyl radicals under ultraviolet (UV) illumination. The photoactivity of the anodized TiNbSn was attributed to TiO2, which was highly crystallized by the application of a high voltage, thus suppressing the recombination of the photogenerated carriers."}
{"screen_id": "S31327", "doi": null, "title": "Simultaneous Production of Lithium Hydroxide and Sulfuric Acid from Lithium Sulphate by Conventional Electrodialysis", "publication_date": "2026-09-15", "type": "article", "venue": "Chemical engineering transactions", "language": "en", "abstract": "The production of lithium hydroxide from lithium sulphate has gained increasing attention due to the growing demand associated with lithium-ion batteries, with electrodialysis emerging as an attractive alternative to conventional processing routes. In this study, the simultaneous production of lithium hydroxide and sulphuric acid from lithium sulphate monohydrate was evaluated using conventional electrodialysis with a configuration consisting of cation- and anion-exchange membranes. Nine experimental trials were conducted by varying the applied voltage (6, 10.5, and 15 V) and the initial lithium sulphate concentration (6, 9, and 12 g/L), employing a three-compartment system. The experimental results indicate that the highest concentrations of lithium hydroxide and sulphuric acid were obtained when operating the electrodialysis cell at an applied voltage of 15 V and an initial lithium sulphate concentration of 12 g/L. Under these conditions, concentrations of 0.153 mol/L of LiOH and 0.067 mol/L of H2SO4 were achieved after 240 minutes of operation. Furthermore, the results showed that the average electrical efficiency reached 75%, while the specific energy consumption was approximately 15.7 kWh/kg of LiOH produced. These findings demonstrate the feasibility of conventional electrodialysis without a bipolar membrane for the simultaneous generation of LiOH and H2SO4, offering an energetically competitive alternative for the utilisation of lithium sulphate solutions."}
{"screen_id": "S17618", "doi": "10.18203/2349-3933.ijam20223332", "title": "Effect of method and concentration of titanium dioxide addition on anti-biofilm ability in extraoral maxillofacial prosthetic fungus", "publication_date": "2022-12-22", "type": "article", "venue": "International Journal of Advances in Medicine", "language": "en", "abstract": "Background: One of the efforts to prevent adhesion and biofilm colonization on the material surface is to improve its properties by using Titanium dioxide (TiO₂) nanoparticles. TiO₂ nanoparticles have antimicrobial properties, especially against the fungus Candida albicans as it has photocatalytic properties that can inhibit the growth of the fungal colonies. The present study aimed to determine the effect of applying TiO₂ to polyurethane plates on the growth of Candida albicans fungal biofilms.Methods: This study applied a laboratory experimental design. The subjects were divided into two groups which included the treatment and control groups. In the treatment group, there were two treatments consisting of the addition of TiO₂ filler (1%, 2%, 3%, and 4%) and the material surface coating group with TiO₂ (1%, 2%, 3%, and 4%). Candida albicans was cultured and grown to form biofilms on polyurethane plates in each group.Results: The results of the statistical analysis obtained through Welch's One Way Anova showed that there was a significant difference in the number of Candida albicans colonies between the treatment and control groups (P<0.05). Treatment with 4% TiO₂ surface coating showed the lowest number of Candida albicans colonies.Conclusions: Coating the surface of the material with TiO₂ on a polyurethane plate was able to inhibit the formation of Candida albicans biofilms."}
{"screen_id": "S02866", "doi": null, "title": "Lifetime and electrochemical properties of Ti/MnO_2 electrodes with multivariant intermediate layers", "publication_date": "2012-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Functional Biomaterials", "language": "en", "abstract": "Acid-proof Ti based-MnO2 anodes with multivariant intermediate layers were prepared by thermal decomposition method and characterized by SEM,XPS and XRD,the lifetime of anodes was determined in 1.0mol/L H2SO4 solution at 60℃ by fast life method,the anodic kinetic parameters(a,b,i0) are examined,and the electrochemical properties of the electrodes was discussed with dual barrier model.The results show that the lifetime of Ti/RuO2+SnO2+ MnO2+Sb2O4/MnO2 at 4A/cm2 can be as long as 58 h,electrochemical kinetics indicates that the active energy for oxygen evolution is lower at the anode,a is smaller and i0 is larger,so they are better anodes materials in acid solution."}
{"screen_id": "S19409", "doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00858", "title": "Mechanistic Study of Glucose Photoreforming over TiO2-Based Catalysts for H2 Production", "publication_date": "2023-06-13", "type": "article", "venue": "ACS Catalysis", "language": "en", "abstract": "High Resolution Image Download MS PowerPoint Slide Glucose is a key intermediate in cellulose photoreforming for H 2 production. This work presents a mechanistic investigation of glucose photoreforming over TiO 2 and Pt/m-TiO 2 catalysts. Analysis of the intermediates formed in the process confirmed the α-scission mechanism of glucose oxidation forming arabinose (C n-1 sugar) and formic acid in the initial oxidation step. The selectivity to sugar products and formic acid differed over Pt/TiO 2 and TiO 2, with Pt/TiO 2 showing the lower selectivity to formic acid due to enhanced adsorption/conversion of formic acid over Pt/TiO 2 . In situ ATR-IR spectroscopy of glucose photoreforming showed the presence of molecular formic acid and formate on the surface of both catalysts at low glucose conversions, suggesting that formic acid oxidation could dominate surface reactions in glucose photoreforming. Further in situ ATR-IR of formic acid photoreforming showed Pt-TiO 2 interfacial sites to be key for formic acid oxidation as TiO 2 was unable to convert adsorbed formic acid/formate. Isotopic studies of the photoreforming of formic acid in D 2 O (with different concentrations) showed that the source of the protons (to form H 2 at Pt sites) was determined by the relative surface coverage of adsorbed water and formic acid."}
{"screen_id": "S00047", "doi": "10.1016/j.jmat.2015.07.005", "title": "Effect of surface composition on electronic properties of methylammonium lead iodide perovskite", "publication_date": "2015-07-23", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Materiomics", "language": "en", "abstract": "Methylammonium lead iodide perovskite, CH3NH3PbI3, is one of the most promising photovoltaic materials for low-cost and clean source of energy. In this work, the first-principles calculations were carried out to investigate the different composition of CH3NH3PbI3 (001), including both methylammonium iodide terminated (MAI-T) and PbI2 terminated (PBI2-T) surfaces. The calculated surface energies show that the MAI-T is thermodynamical more stable than the PBI2-T one under the equilibrium growth condition. The electronic properties of the two types of surfaces are also different. The band gap of PBI2-T is obviously smaller than that of MAI-T due to the surface Pb states. Band gaps of MAI-T decrease with increasing thickness, while band gaps of PBI2-T are insensitive to the slab thickness. The calculated optical absorption coefficients suggest that both terminations are effective solar energy absorbers in the visible light spectrum."}
