{"screen_id": "S01426", "doi": "10.1038/ncomms1768", "title": "Growth of non-phototrophic microorganisms using solar energy through mineral photocatalysis", "publication_date": "2012-04-03", "type": "article", "venue": "Nature Communications", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S13450", "doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2021.151139", "title": "Sensor surface via inspiration from Nature: The specific case of electron trapping in TiO2/WO3(∙0.33H2O) and reaction center/WO3(∙0.33H2O) systems", "publication_date": "2021-09-21", "type": "article", "venue": "Applied Surface Science", "language": "en", "abstract": "In this work, reaction center protein (RC) isolated from Rhodobacter sphaeroides purple bacteria was coupled with WO3(∙0.33H2O) via physical adsorption, where vectorial electron transfer (from RCs towards the inorganic carrier) was demonstrated using flash kinetics and photoluminescence measurements. The efficiency of the interaction between RCs and WO3(∙0.33H2O) was correlated to the components’ surface charge at the working pH and the structural/morphological and surface properties of the inorganic carrier (e.g., anchoring capacity assured by HO, WO bonds). The role of WO3(∙0.33H2O) as final electron trap and charge separator was proven not only in RCs/WO3(∙0.33H2O) biohybrid systems but also in TiO2/WO3(∙0.33H2O) composites. The charge transfer in the inorganic composites was evaluated by monitoring the reverse process of the color reaction (W5+ → W6+) via diffuse reflectance spectroscopy (DRS) after a previous UV-A (320–400 nm) exposure. The efficiency of the charge transfer process in inorganic systems was correlated to the initial W5+ content of WO3(∙0.33H2O), followed by the photocatalytic efficiency evaluation of these inorganic composites under UV-A irradiation."}
{"screen_id": "S03841", "doi": "10.1002/advs.201600337", "title": "Recent Progress in Energy‐Driven Water Splitting", "publication_date": "2017-01-13", "type": "article", "venue": "Advanced Science", "language": "en", "abstract": "Hydrogen is readily obtained from renewable and non-renewable resources via water splitting by using thermal, electrical, photonic and biochemical energy. The major hydrogen production is generated from thermal energy through steam reforming/gasification of fossil fuel. As the commonly used non-renewable resources will be depleted in the long run, there is great demand to utilize renewable energy resources for hydrogen production. Most of the renewable resources may be used to produce electricity for driving water splitting while challenges remain to improve cost-effectiveness. As the most abundant energy resource, the direct conversion of solar energy to hydrogen is considered the most sustainable energy production method without causing pollutions to the environment. In overall, this review briefly summarizes thermolytic, electrolytic, photolytic and biolytic water splitting. It highlights photonic and electrical driven water splitting together with photovoltaic-integrated solar-driven water electrolysis."}
{"screen_id": "S28843", "doi": null, "title": "Zr/Cu-TiO2 CATALYSTS FOR PHOTOCATALYTIC WATER TREATMENT", "publication_date": "2019-12-03", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "RUNG", "language": "en", "abstract": "This work entitled «Zr/Cu-TiO2 catalysts for photocatalytic water treatment» tackles a problem of tons of dyes discharged everyday mainly from textile industries. This is a huge concern because of dyes persistence, toxicity and potential to the bioaccumulation in living organisms. Here, a small contribution to overall problem is presented. The research work consists of three main parts: Theoretical background, Experimental and Results and discussion. In the Theoretical background chapter the overall problem is identified and discussed. The main water treatment techniques are presented briefly with their advantages and drawbacks. Photocatalysis assisted with TiO2 is shown as an alternative additional technique with its own pros and cons. Further, a cursory overview of TiO2 modification techniques is made and advantages in using copper and zirconium oxides for TiO2 modification are presented. The reason and possible positive effect of using of two oxides simultaneously for TiO2 modification is indicated. Additionally, a positive impact of solar light for overall rate of dyes degradation assisted with TiO2 is discussed. Within the framework of photosensitization effect, the problem of using dyes for assessment of photocatalytic properties of materials under the visible light is touched on. Photothermal methods as possible beneficial techniques for this purpose are proposed. In the Experimental chapter, all experimental techniques used in current research work with the technical details specific for the research work are presented. There are methods of materials preparation, photocatalytic tests under different conditions and varying model pollutants, and physico-chemical characterization techniques. The Results and discussion chapter is divided by three subchapters. Each chapter is dedicated to one hypothesis, which was checked and confirmed or disproved. The first hypothesis is about beneficial loading of copper and zirconium oxides to TiO2. After numerous experiments held, it was concluded that the pair of copper and zirconium oxides is beneficial for simultaneous application on TiO2 surface to promote its performance. The second subchapter is about zirconium distribution and its impact on the activity of studied materials towards the antraquinone dye Reactive Blue 19. Different techniques such as XRD, TEM, EXAFS and many others were used in order to characterize the materials and to understand the details of the processes taking place. The existence of upper limit of copper oxide loading for its beneficial effect on TiO2 performance was demonstrated. It was observed that zirconium species loading leads to improvement in performance of materials with higher copper loading, which otherwise lowers activity of TiO2 – this is in case when copper only above its optimal level is present. It was concluded that zirconium oxide containing species occupy rutile surface sites in mixed phase TiO2 and this way beneficially influence the material performance towards the dye removal. The third subchapter is about the visible light TiO2 assisted dye degradation. It is well known that photosensitization mechanism of dye degradation appears under the visible and as a consequence under the solar light irradiation. This leads to the overall enhancement of dyes degradation, which is positive and may be used as a benefit for faster pollutant destruction. However, this fact leads to mishmash in the determination of real photocatalytic activity of materials towards the dye. It was hypothesized that the impact of photosensitization mechanism on the overall material performance against Reactive blue 19 dye (RB19) descends with the dye concentration lowering. Thermal lens spectrometry (TLS) which is sensitive to chemicals at low concentrations was used for hypothesis evaluation. To summarize the research work achievements, the conclusions of the thesis are given at the end."}
{"screen_id": "S00861", "doi": "10.2478/s11532-013-0400-7", "title": "Temperature effect over structure and photochemical properties of nanostructured SnO2 powders", "publication_date": "2014-01-14", "type": "article", "venue": "Open Chemistry", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract We successfully synthesized tin dioxide nanoparticles with polyhedral morphology via an ethylene glycol assisted sol-gel approach. The structural characteristics of three tin dioxide samples were investigated after being thermally treated at 400°C, 600°C and 800°C. X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns clearly show the formation of single phase tin dioxide nanoparticles, with crystallite size of 6–20 nm, in good correlation with Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) analysis confirms the formation of 6nm polyhedral nanoparticles for the 400°C sample. Ultraviolet-visible (UV-Vis) and photoluminescence (PL) spectra suggest a high concentration of oxygen vacancies. The oxygen vacancy concentration increases with temperature, due to the combined action of the formation of VO and the energetic O compensation. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) analysis also confirms the formation of single phase tin dioxide and the presence of oxygen vacancies in good agreement with UV-VIS and PL data."}
{"screen_id": "S23562", "doi": "10.26717/bjstr.2024.58.009143", "title": "\"Research Progress on the Electrocatalytic Degradation of Organic Pollutants by PbO2-Based Electrode\"", "publication_date": "2024-08-23", "type": "article", "venue": "Biomedical Journal of Scientific & Technical Research", "language": "en", "abstract": "As an inactive electrode, PbO2-based electrode can produce abundant hydroxyl radicals which are beneficial to the degradation of organic pollutants. In recent years, as a widely used material in electrochemical oxidation technology, more and more PbO2-based electrodes have attracted much attention due to their high oxygen evolution potential, high catalytic activity and good stability. Presently, most of the articles are devoted to the modification of the electrode. To better understand electrochemical degradation of pollutants from waste water, this review summarizes the research progress of wastewater treatment in recent years."}
{"screen_id": "S10897", "doi": "10.1093/petrology/egaa098", "title": "Mineralogical Constraints on the Magma Mixing Beneath the Iheya Graben, an Active Back-Arc Spreading Centre of the Okinawa Trough", "publication_date": "2020-09-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Petrology", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract The Iheya Graben is a back-arc spreading centre in the middle part of the Okinawa Trough. It is also located in the centre of an anomalous volcanic zone (volcanic arc migration phenomenon, or VAMP) and is characterized by bimodal volcanism, unusually high heat flow and active hydrothermal circulation. The subvolcanic magma plumbing system and the magmatic processes related to the formation of rare erupted intermediate lavas in this area remain uncertain. In this study, we conducted systematic mineralogical analyses (in situ major element, trace element and Sr isotopes) and whole rock geochemical analyses (major element, trace element and Sr–Nd isotopes) on an andesite (T5-2; type C andesite) and a rhyolite (C11; type 2 rhyolite), and present evidence for magma mixing in the origins of these lavas. Andesite T5-2 contains a mafic mineral assemblage and a silicic mineral assemblage, which are derived from a basaltic melt and a type 2 rhyolitic melt, respectively. A 4:6 mixture of basalt and type 2 rhyolite from the Iheya Graben reproduces the whole-rock major element, trace element, and Sr–Nd isotope compositions of T5-2. Rhyolite C11 contains a group of disequilibrium minerals that crystallized from a less evolved rhyolitic melt with relatively more enriched Sr–Nd isotope compositions, suggesting mixing of this melt with a more evolved and isotopically more depleted rhyolitic melt. This mixing process could produce a series of rhyolitic melts with a negative correlation between SiO2 concentrations and 87Sr/86Sr ratios (or a positive correlation for 143Nd/144Nd ratios), which are recorded by the whole group of type 2 rhyolites. The results from mineral-based thermobarometers suggest that the premixing storage temperatures of the basaltic and rhyolitic melts are ∼1100 °C and 870–900 °C, respectively. The hybrid andesitic melt has temperatures of ∼950 to ∼980 °C. The magma storage pressures are not well constrained, ranging from ∼400 MPa to ∼100 MPa. We show that magma mixing plays a significant role in the origins of diverse volcanism in the middle Okinawa Trough; more specifically, two of the three types of andesites (types B and C) and one of the two types of rhyolites (type 2) are associated with magma mixing. We thus propose a complex magma plumbing system with multichamber magma storage and frequent magma mixing beneath the Iheya Graben."}
{"screen_id": "S02230", "doi": null, "title": "Charged muonium diffusion in indium oxide and other transparent conducting oxides", "publication_date": "2015-08-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "ThinkTech (Texas Tech University)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Transparent conducting oxides (TCO) are a class of semiconducting materials that are transparent to visible light, commonly used as transparent electrodes in semiconductor optical devices, such as LEDs and solar cells. Hydrogen is commonly used to passivate defects at the semiconductor – TCO interface to increase the transparency of the interface. Over time, H can diffuse away from the interface, causing interface defects to reactivate and reducing the transparency. The manner in which H diffuses in the TCO and semiconductor layers on either side of the interface is of interest. Muon Spin Relaxation (MuSR) is a useful experimental technique that uses positive muons as a light proton analog to determine how muonium (Mu = μ^++e^-) defects act in a material. The Mu defect is treated as a light isotope of H and the results for Mu can be extrapolated to H, with zero point energy differences properly accounted for. \\nThis PhD dissertation investigates Mu^+ motion in indium oxide (In2O3) and a series of other TCO materials. Zero external magnetic field (ZF) MuSR experiments were performed on the TCO samples to track the Mu^+ hop rates that are directly related to diffusion. The In2O3 ZF data show three Mu^+ states are present over the temperature range tested. Mu^+ motion that is interrupted by trapping at an unknown defect is treated with a two-state, trap and release model. The barrier for site-to-site hopping motion for the mobile Mu^+ state is found to be 0.75 eV, which compares well with the calculated H^+ migration barrier of 0.76 eV. In progress fits, initial analysis of results, and plans moving forward are discussed for ZF-MuSR measurements on CdO, SnO2, TiO2, Ga2O3, and ZnO."}
{"screen_id": "S05622", "doi": "10.1021/acsami.7b16936", "title": "Ancient Chemistry “Pharaoh’s Snakes” for Efficient Fe-/N-Doped Carbon Electrocatalysts", "publication_date": "2018-03-09", "type": "article", "venue": "ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract The method of fabricating nonprecious metal electrocatalysts with high activity and durability through a facile and eco-friendly procedure is of great significance to the development of low-cost fuel cells and metal–air batteries. Herein, we present that an ancient chemical reaction of “Pharaoh’s snakes” can be a fast and convenient technique to prepare Fe-/N-doped carbon (Fe/N–C) nanosheet/nanotube electrocatalysts with sugar, soda, melamine, and iron nitrate as precursors. The resultant Fe/N–C catalyst has a hierarchically porous structure, a large surface area, and uniformly distributed active sites. The catalyst shows high electrocatalytic activities toward both the oxygen reduction reaction with a half-wave potential of 0.90 V (vs reversible hydrogen electrode) better than that of Pt/C and the oxygen evolution reaction with an overpotential of 0.46 V at the current density of 10 mA cm–2 comparable to that of RuO2. The activity and stability of the catalyst are also evaluated in primary and rechargeable Zn–air batteries. In both conditions, three-dimensional Fe/N–C exhibited performances superior to Pt/C. Our work demonstrates a success of utilizing an ancient science to make a state-of-the-art electrocatalyst."}
{"screen_id": "S29027", "doi": null, "title": "Correlations Between the Dielectric Properties, Domain Structure Morphology and Phase State of Bi1-xSmxFeO3 Nanoparticles", "publication_date": "2026-03-06", "type": "preprint", "venue": "arXiv (Cornell University)", "language": null, "abstract": "Nanoscale multiferroics are basic model objects for studying polar, magnetic and magnetoelectric properties and mutual couplings. Bismuth-samarium ferrite (Bi1-xSmxFeO3) is a model orthoferrite, whose polar, magnetic and magnetoelectric properties have been studied for the bulk and thin film samples. The properties of Bi1-xSmxFeO3 nanoparticles have been much less studied, despite the nanoparticles can be used in a wide range of applications, such as energy storage, magnetic hyperthermia and advanced nanoelectronics. In this work we performed experimental measurements and analysis of the temperature dependence of the Bi1-xSmxFeO3 nanopowders dielectric properties. Calculations of the ferro-ionic coupling influence on the dielectric properties, domain structure morphology and phase states are performed in the framework of the Ginzburg-Landau-Devonshire-Stephenson-Highland approach. Theoretical results explain the main trends of experimentally observed temperature dependences of the effective dielectric permittivity, which allows us to understand the correlations between the temperature behavior of dielectric properties, domain structure morphology and phase state of Bi1-xSmxFeO3 nanoparticles."}
{"screen_id": "S03093", "doi": "10.1007/s12678-016-0321-2", "title": "A Facile Synthesis of Size-Controllable IrO2 and RuO2 Nanoparticles for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction", "publication_date": "2016-06-30", "type": "article", "venue": "Electrocatalysis", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S14818", "doi": "10.53365/nrfhh/144175", "title": "Nanoparticles in Agriculture: Characterization, Uptake and Role in Mitigating Heat Stress", "publication_date": "2022-01-06", "type": "article", "venue": "Natural Resources for Human Health", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abiotic stresses like heat, drought, and salinity are among the major threats to sustainable crop production. These stresses induce numerous adverse effects in plants by impairing biochemical, physiological and molecular processes, eventually affecting plant growth, development and productivity. The rising temperature is one of the major causes of heat stress in agriculture. The variation in temperature during crop development has led to devastating agricultural losses in terms of yield. To adapt and mitigate these effects, germplasm scientists and agronomists aim to develop heat-tolerant varieties or cultivars. These efforts generally include the identification of alleles responsible for heat tolerance and their introgression into breeding populations through conventional or biotechnological methods. However, heat tolerance is a very complex physio-biochemical response of plants governed by a number of genes positioned at different loci. The accumulation of various additive gene effects into a single genotype is an extremely tedious and time-consuming process in both plant breeding and biotechnology. Recent advancements in agricultural nanotechnology have raised expectations for sustainable productivity without altering the genetic make-up of plants. In this milieu, the application of biologically active nanoparticles (NPs) could be a novel approach to enhance heat tolerance in crops. Recently, the NPs from silver, silicon, titanium and selenium have been proven valuable for plants to combat heat stress by altering their physiological and biochemical responses. Due to nano-scale size and the high surface area along with their slow and steady release, the NPs exert positive effects in plants through their growth-promoting and antioxidant capabilities. In this review, various technologies used for NPs characterization and their applications in agriculture have been discussed. The review further elaborates the uptake mechanism of NPs and their translocation in different plant parts along with the factors affecting them. This article also describes the role of metal or metal oxide NPs, as well as nano, encapsulated plant growth regulators and signal molecules in heat stress tolerance. The review will provide an insight to the scientists working in the area of agricultural sciences to explore new NPs to encounter different types of biotic and abiotic stresses."}
{"screen_id": "S13290", "doi": null, "title": "Synthesis and characterisation of up-scalable layered double hydroxides for energy storage application", "publication_date": "2019-10-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "Unisa Institutional Repository (University of South Africa)", "language": "en", "abstract": "The development of cost-effective and scalable synthetic methods is of paramount importance \\nto achieve industrial application of energy conversion and storage devices based on layered \\ndouble hydroxides (LDH). Herein, we synthesized NiCo-LDH nanosheets via a simple up scalable co-precipitation method at relatively low temperature. Moreover, we used several \\ncharacterization techniques to unveil the unique properties of the novel NiCo-LDH among \\nwhich XRD, EDS, XPS and FT-IR. Consequently, we further investigated NiCo-LDH \\nnanosheets using cyclic voltammetry (CV) and electrochemical impedance spectroscopy \\n(EIS) to evaluate the electroactivity of the as-synthesized NiCo-LDH for energy storage in \\nsupercapacitor. Overall, the electrochemical test of the as-synthesized NiCo-LDH revealed \\nremarkable performance exhibiting a specific capacitance as high as 2,140 Fg-1 \\n(5 mV/s)."}
{"screen_id": "S25659", "doi": "10.1180/mgm.2025.27", "title": "Yamhamelachite, KCrP 2 O 7 , a new natural pyrophosphate from phosphide-bearing breccia of the Hatrurim Complex, Negev Desert, Israel", "publication_date": "2025-05-02", "type": "article", "venue": "Mineralogical Magazine", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract Phosphide-bearing diopside–anorthite paralava found in the distribution area of the pyrometamorphic rocks of the Hatrurim Complex in Jordan (Daba-Siwaqa field) and Israel (Hatrurim Basin field) have yielded a large number of new phosphides and phosphates. In 2019, a small outcrop of phosphide-bearing breccia with cement composed of gehlenite–flamite paralava was discovered in the Hatrurim Basin. A new pyrophosphate, yamhamelachite, KCrP 2 O 7 ( P 2 1 / c, a = 7.3574(3), b = 9.9336(4), c = 8.1540(4) Å, β = 106.712(5)°, V = 570.77(5) Å 3 and Z = 4), occurs at the phosphide-enriched boundary between an altered sedimentary xenolith and the gehlenite–flamite paralava. Yamhamelachite forms green aggregates in which the size of grains does not exceed 25–30 μm. The mineral is transparent with a glassy lustre. Yamhamelachite is brittle with conchoidal fracture. Mohs hardness = 4. The empirical formula of yamhamelachite calculated on the basis of average microprobe analyses is (K 0.89 Ca 0.01 □ 0.10 ) Σ1.00 Cr 3+ 0.50 V 3+ 0.33 Al 0.15 Fe 3+ 0.04 Ti 4+ 0.03 ) Σ1.05 P 1.98 O 7 . The density calculated from the empirical formula and structural data is 3.035 g·cm –3 . Cr 3+ in yamhamelachite is substituted by V 3+ , and in a few cases V is marginally more abundant than Cr, indicating the presence of a potentially new mineral with the formula KVP 2 O 7 . Yamhamelachite consists of layers of Cr 3+ -octahedra and pyrophosphate groups connected at their apices, and potassium located within channels parallel to [001]. A characteristic feature of phosphide aggregates associated with yamhamelachite is the presence of two generations of barringerite, the earlier of which has higher Cr and V content. In the general crystallisation sequence, yamhamelachite appears after phosphides (+pyrrhotite and daubréelite) and then spinels of the chromite–magnetite series crystallise, along with ferromerrillite and ferroalluaudite. The source of chromium for yamhamelachite was mainly V–Cr-bearing pyrrhotite and V-bearing daubréelite. The low Fe 3+ content in yamhamelachite, probably related to its late-stage alteration, indicates that it crystallised from phosphate melt under reducing conditions at ∼1000°С."}
{"screen_id": "S27794", "doi": null, "title": "Optimization of titanium dioxide (tio2) thin film using dip coating technique for oxygen gas sensor", "publication_date": "2017-12-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "UTHM Institutional Repository (Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Titanium dioxide (TiO2) thin film gas sensors have been widely used and investigated in the detection of target gases. However, to obtain anatase phase for oxygen gas sensor with low and short annealing temperature is the obstacle in the fabrication of oxygen gas sensor. It is thus desirable to develop TiO2 thin film preparation technique that provides the anatase phase for oxygen gas sensor at low and short annealing temperature. In this study, the dip coating method was used to fabricate the TiO2 thin film. The parameters such as deposition layer, withdrawal speed of dip coating and annealing temperature were varied to optimize the properties of thin film. The optimum parameters are obtained from the 1 layer deposition film, 10 mm/ min withdrawal speed of dip coating, and annealed the film at 400 °C in electrical furnace. Crystal structure studies showed that the optimized TiO2 thin film is anatase phase with tetragonal lattice structure and (101) plane is the dominant peak. Morphological studies indicated that the film is even and uniform in manner with grain size of 13.3 nm. The crystallite size obtained from HIGHSCORE software is 69.02 nm and calculated crystallite size using Scherrer’s equation is 55.7 nm. The electrical studies showed that the film resistivity is 1.64 x 10 -3 Ω.cm. The gas sensor measurement revealed that the response and recovery time of TiO2 thin film sensor at room temperature is about 13.22 s and 2.67 s, respectively. Thus, proving that the potential to use the TiO2 thin film fabricated by dip coating as active layer in oxygen gas sensor."}
