{"screen_id": "S04531", "doi": "10.25781/kaust-avmkw", "title": "Control and Characterization of Titanium Dioxide Morphology: Applications in Surface Organometallic Chemistry", "publication_date": "2014-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "King Abdullah University of Science and Technology Repository (King Abdullah University of Science and Technology)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Surface Organometallic Chemistry leads to the combination of the high activity and specificity of homogeneous catalysts with the recoverability and practicality of heterogeneous catalysts. Most metal complexes used in this chemistry are grafted on metal oxide supports such as amorphous silica (SiO2) and γ-alumina (Al2O3). In this thesis, we sought to enable the use of titania (TiO2) as a new support for single-site well-defined grafting of metal complexes. This was achieved by synthesizing a special type of anatase-TiO2, bearing a high density of identical hydroxyl groups, through hydrothermal synthesis then post-treatment under high vacuum followed by oxygen flow, and characterized by several analytical techniques including X-ray diffraction, transmission electron microscopy, infrared spectroscopy and nuclear magnetic resonance. Finally, as a proof of concept, the grafting of vanadium oxychloride (VOCl3) was successfully attempted."}
{"screen_id": "S30975", "doi": "10.1016/j.jpcs.2026.114098", "title": "Fabricating CeO2/RuO2 heterostructures and investigating their synergistic promotion mechanism toward the acidic oxygen evolution reaction", "publication_date": "2026-08-28", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Physics and Chemistry of Solids", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S08884", "doi": "10.5204/thesis.eprints.135045", "title": "Optimization of two-dimensional nanostructures for rechargeable batteries", "publication_date": "2019-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "Queensland University of Technology", "language": "en", "abstract": "This research aims to explore the optimization strategies of two-dimensional (2D) nanostructures for high-performance rechargeable batteries. Three effective strategies, including 2D-based phase engineering, component engineering and van der Waals (vdW) heterostructures, were proposed for improving electrochemical properties of 2D nanomaterials. These effective strategies will offer good references for researchers to develop practical next-generation rechargeable batteries using the emerging 2D nanomaterials."}
{"screen_id": "S02377", "doi": "10.1002/2015jb012652", "title": "Plume‐orogenic lithosphere interaction recorded in the Haladala layered intrusion in the Southwest Tianshan Orogen, NW China", "publication_date": "2016-02-26", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Geophysical Research Solid Earth", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract The plume‐orogenic lithosphere interaction may be common and important for the generation of large igneous provinces. The information regarding such a process is recorded by the Haladala gabbroic intrusion (~300 Ma), the largest layered ultramafic‐mafic intrusion hosting V‐Ti magnetite deposits in the Southwest Tianshan Orogen, NW China. The Haladala gabbros exhibit unfractionated chondrite‐normalized rare earth element patterns with negative Nb and Ta anomalies and positive Pb anomaly on the primitive mantle‐normalized multielement variation diagram. They are characterized by low initial Sr isotopes, slightly decoupled but high positive bulk rock εNd(t) and εHf(t), and high 207Pb/204Pb and 208Pb/204Pb relative to 206Pb/204Pb, delineating a DUPAL signature in the sources. The Haladala gabbros cannot be arc or postcollisional magmatism, given the lack of hydrous minerals and low K contents, respectively. This is further supported by the relatively low oxygen fugacity required for the gradual enrichment of V‐Ti magnetite during the magma fractionation and by an overall anhydrous mantle source suggested by troctolite mineral assemblage (olivine + plagioclase). The emplacement age of the Haladala gabbros is identical to that of the Wajilitag kimberlites in the Tarim's interior, which have been interpreted as the first magmatic expression of the Tarim mantle plume. We thus propose that the Haladala gabbroic intrusion was generated in a hybrid geodynamic setting in which the Southwest Tianshan Orogen was impacted by an upwelling mantle plume. In this sense, the Haladala layered gabbroic intrusion records the early phase of magmatism of the Tarim plume, which was preferentially emplaced in a lithospheric weak zone."}
{"screen_id": "S25717", "doi": "10.17794/rgn.2025.2.11", "title": "BOG IRON ORES IN CENTRAL CROATIA – MINERALOGICAL AND GEOLOGICAL CASE STUDY ON SOIL PROFILES", "publication_date": "2025-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Rudarsko-geološko-naftni zbornik", "language": "en", "abstract": "The Pokuplje and Posavina regions (central Croatia) offer unique insight into the environmental conditions that favour the formation of iron (Fe) ores in low-lying areas. Three soil profiles from Žakanje, Osekovo and Pravutine, located in the Kupa and Sava river plains, were analysed to understand their mineralogical and geochemical composition, with a focus on Fe enrichment and trace metal content. The presence of impermeable clay horizons in these profiles contributes to the formation of a redox boundary that favours the precipitation of Fe in the form of oxyhydroxides. The reddish mottling observed in the middle horizons suggests that the studied soils may represent an early stage of bog iron ore formation. Geochemical analysis shows that these soils are moderately to slightly acidic, with silt as the dominant granulometric fraction and variable Fe oxide content in the profiles. The high Fe concentrations are consistent with the depth of groundwater fluctuations, which must have driven the redox cycle and promoted mobility and deposition of Fe. The contents of several trace metals (Cr, Ni, Zn, Pb and As) showed correlation with Fe. This implies regional occurrences of siderite and Fe-containing hydrothermal zones as a possible source of Fe, transported and precipitated into soil via hydrological processes. Overall, the results suggest that the combination of clay-rich, flood-prone landscapes and seasonal groundwater fluctuations provide ideal conditions for the formation of bog iron ore in central Croatia. These types of ores could have been an economically viable source for iron production during archaeological periods."}
{"screen_id": "S20271", "doi": "10.48550/arxiv.2309.00651", "title": "Speeding-up Hybrid Functional based Ab Initio Molecular Dynamics using Multiple Time-stepping and Resonance Free Thermostat", "publication_date": "2023-08-31", "type": "preprint", "venue": "arXiv (Cornell University)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Ab initio molecular dynamics (AIMD) based on density functional theory (DFT) has become a workhorse for studying the structure, dynamics, and reactions in condensed matter systems. Currently, AIMD simulations are primarily carried out at the level of generalized gradient approximation (GGA), which is at the 2nd rung of DFT-functionals in terms of accuracy. Hybrid DFT functionals which form the 4th rung in the accuracy ladder, are not commonly used in AIMD simulations as the computational cost involved is $100$ times or higher. To facilitate AIMD simulations with hybrid functionals, we propose here an approach that could speed up the calculations by ~30 times or more for systems with a few hundred of atoms. We demonstrate that, by achieving this significant speed up and making the compute time of hybrid functional based AIMD simulations at par with that of GGA functionals, we are able to study several complex condensed matter systems and model chemical reactions in solution with hybrid functionals that were earlier unthinkable to be performed."}
{"screen_id": "S29299", "doi": null, "title": "燃料欠乏への高耐久化に向けた固体高分子形燃料電池用のアノード触媒層の設計", "publication_date": "2024-11-30", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "Institutional Repositories DataBase (IRDB)", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S03934", "doi": "10.1016/j.apgeochem.2017.02.003", "title": "Environmental geochemistry of a mega beach nourishment in the Netherlands: Monitoring freshening and oxidation processes", "publication_date": "2017-02-05", "type": "article", "venue": "Applied Geochemistry", "language": "en", "abstract": "As coastal lowlands are prone to sea water flooding, sea-level rise might globally increase this risk. To protect its coastline, the Netherlands adds an average of 12 million m3 of sand annually, but more is needed to cope with the expected consequences of global warming. In 2011 a novel approach for coastal protection was applied near The Hague, consisting of a mega beach nourishment of 21.5 million m3 of sand: the Sand Engine – an artificial sand spit rising to 6 m above mean sea level. It uniquely combines coastal engineering construction with environmental, ecological and social considerations. To construct the Sand Engine, material was used from the seafloor, which changed the materials environment from anaerobic to aerobic, triggering two main hydrogeochemical processes: pyrite oxidation and groundwater freshening. The objective of this study was to assess the sediment geochemistry of the Sand Engine and understand the hydrogeochemistry with respect to pyrite oxidation and freshening. When sufficient buffer capacity is lacking, the mobility of metals and metalloids originated from the mineral pyrite, can cause local impacts on ecology and environment. Geochemical and multivariate statistical analyses were performed on 174 sediment samples from the Sand Engine and from material collected from the seafloor prior to its construction, as well as on 86 samples of pore water collected from the Sand Engine. First, a cluster analysis was performed, using model-based (Mclust) and variable clustering. Second, a robust factor analyses (RFA) was used to explain the variation between the groups and discover relationships between elements and/or soil properties within the groups. We distinguished three clusters of sediment samples and two clusters of pore water samples. Sediment cluster 1 was comprised exclusively of surface samples from the Sand Engine; it was differentiated from the other two clusters by its geochemistry, sorting processes and weathering. Sediment clusters 2 consisted of shallow samples from the Sand Engine, as well as deeper autochthone material from the sand pit. Sediment cluster 3 contained deeper samples from the Sand Engine and also shallow autochthone material from the sand pit. Sediment clusters 2 and 3 show differences in carbonate content and, especially, in reactive iron, confirming that in the sand pit area a Holocene marine layer overlies Pleistocene fluvial sand. For the pore water samples, two clusters were estimated: a saline water cluster and a fresh water cluster. Thus the Sand Engine contains source material from two different geological layers, which vary in their reactive iron concentration and carbonate minerals. Pyrite oxidation is seen with depth, resulting in iron oxides and an increase in alkalinity because of calcite dissolution. With the development of the Sand Engine source material is expected to show a decrease in pyrite oxidation, because of low amount of available sulphide minerals. Carbonate dissolution due to pyrite oxidation will then decrease as well. Additional calcite dissolution is caused by freshening processes. With the amount of CaCO3 present in the sand, the Sand Engine contains calcareous-rich sand where acidic conditions are not likely to occur during its life span and therefore create no local environmental risks for acidification. At the surface of the mega beach nourishment, sorting processes are causing locally enrichment of iron oxides and associated elements, as well as a decrease in the stability of heavy minerals like rutile."}
{"screen_id": "S08708", "doi": "10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b06820", "title": "An Algorithm for the Extraction of Tafel Slopes", "publication_date": "2019-11-13", "type": "article", "venue": "The Journal of Physical Chemistry C", "language": "en", "abstract": "The Tafel equation, which serves as a linearized representation of the Butler–Volmer expression, permits the extraction of fundamental parameters of electrochemical systems, such as exchange current densities and Tafel slopes. However, the application of these linear fitting procedures become problematic in the cases of experimental data featuring nonlinearities in the Tafel (log( J ) – V ) response. This is especially troubling in low-overpotential regimes, where charge transfer kinetics generally dominate electrode behavior (as opposed to diffusion-limited currents at higher overpotentials) and linearization is expected to be most applicable. As a response to this complication and the ad-hoc forms of fitting that may arise from it, this report outlines a systematic method for the determination of Tafel slopes through a rigorous, quantitative framework. The algorithm’s performance is benchmarked using electrochemical measurements of well-characterized reactions for water splitting, hydrogen evolution, and dioxygen reduction at iridium and platinum electrodes. As a final validation test, we show that the exchange currents extracted through this automated fitting procedure, used in conjunction with the Butler–Volmer model, are capable of reproducing the original electrochemical data in kinetically controlled regimes."}
{"screen_id": "S08390", "doi": "10.2478/logos-2019-0015", "title": "New interpretation of the provenance of crystalline material from Oligocene flysch deposits of the Skole Nappe, Poland: evidence from heavy minerals and clasts in the Nowy Borek section", "publication_date": "2019-08-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Geologos", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract The Futoma Member (Oligocene, Rupelian) of the Menilite Formation is present only in the northern part of the Skole Nappe. Some diatomitic layers of this member in the Nowy Borek section contain coarse-grained detrital material composed of a variety of metamorphic, volcanic and sedimentary rock fragments. The material derives from primary and secondary sources. Most abundant are debris of metamorphic rocks, mostly gneisses and mica schists. The metamorphic origin of these rocks is confirmed by the composition of heavy mineral assemblages and garnet chemistry. These rocks could have been transported from a local source located close to the margin of the Skole Basin or within that basin. The volcanic rocks reflect Paleogene volcanic activity that was widespread in the Carpathian region. Cherts, which could have been subjected to synsedimentary erosion, may have been derived from the older portions of the same formation."}
{"screen_id": "S28472", "doi": "10.1002/smsc.202500614", "title": "Phase‐Changing Vanadium Oxides for Electromagnetic Radiation Management", "publication_date": "2026-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Small Science", "language": "en", "abstract": "Vanadium oxides and their polymorphs are transforming electromagnetic radiation security in communications and infrastructure. This arises from their broadband response and potential for wavelength attenuation across the ultraviolet, optical, infrared, and radio regions of the electromagnetic spectrum. More specifically, monoclinic vanadium dioxide's sharp, reversible insulator‐to‐metal transition near room temperature enables ultrafast, tuneable switching of conductivity and optical properties, triggered by thermal, optical, or electrical controls. Chalcogenide phase‐change materials require high crystallisation temperatures and nanosecond switching times, whereas VO 2 's volatile Mott transition operates near ambient conditions with femtosecond response and cycling stability exceeding 100 million cycles. This dynamic modulation supports real‐time absorption, shielding, and beam steering across terahertz, infrared, and radiofrequency domains, with demonstrated absorption rates tuneable from 2% to 100% and bandwidths up to 6.35 THz. VO 2 metasurfaces offer polarisation insensitivity and multifunctionality, protecting against jamming, interception, and signal leakage. Advances in large‐area synthesis, nanostructuring, and durability have enabled both highly sensitive sensors and long‐lived smart coatings. These findings position vanadium oxides as transformative materials for physical‐layer electromagnetic security in wireless communications, infrastructure protection, and smart sensing systems."}
{"screen_id": "S05103", "doi": "10.3390/en10111748", "title": "A Review of Lithium-Air Battery Modeling Studies", "publication_date": "2017-11-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Energies", "language": "en", "abstract": "Li-air batteries have attracted interest as energy storage devices due to their high energy and power density. Li-air batteries are expected to revolutionize the automobile industry (for use in electric and hybrid vehicles) and electrochemical energy storage systems by surpassing the energy capacities of conventional Li-ion batteries. However, the practical implementation of Li-air batteries is still hindered by many challenges, such as low cyclic performance and high charging voltage, resulting from oxygen transport limitations, electrolyte degradation, and the formation of irreversible reduction products. Therefore, various methodologies have been attempted to mitigate the issues causing performance degradation of Li-air batteries. Among myriad studies, theoretical and numerical modeling are powerful tools for describing and investigating the chemical reactions, reactive ion transportation, and electrical performance of batteries. Herein, we review the various multi-physics/scale models used to provide mechanistic insights into processes in Li-air batteries and relate these to overall battery performance. First, continuum-based models describing ion transport, pore blocking phenomena, and reduction product precipitation are presented. Next, atomistic modeling-based studies that provide an understanding of the reaction mechanisms in oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), as well as ion–ion interactions in the electrolyte, are described."}
{"screen_id": "S14837", "doi": "10.1007/s13762-022-04065-3", "title": "Synthesis of non-active electrode (TiO2/GO/Ag) for the photo-electro-Fenton oxidation of micropollutants in wastewater", "publication_date": "2022-03-26", "type": "article", "venue": "International Journal of Environmental Science and Technology", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract Heterogeneous photo-electro-Fenton oxidation (hPEF) is known to be a robust technique, which can be employed for promoting organic degradation. This paper describes an environmentally friendly approach with the combination of photocatalysis and electrocatalysis in less acidic pH, aiming to achieve faster mineralization of a pharmaceutical micropollutant without adding any external oxidants. TiO2/GO/loaded Ag non-active electrodes are synthesized for the degradation of bupropion hydrochloride (antidepressant drug). The present work also seeks the parametric modeling and optimization of hPEF process parameters by using R programming. Nonlinear kinetic modeling was performed for the determination of kinetic parameters. The role of selected process parameters on the mineralization of bupropion was also explained in detail. The OH• and O2•− showed their active participation in the degradation process, while Ag and UV-C played an active role in the disinfection of treated wastewater."}
{"screen_id": "S20651", "doi": "10.5821/dissertation-2117-360909", "title": "The application of broadband ultrafast spectroscopy to reveal structural, magnetic and electronic dynamics in quantum materials", "publication_date": "2021-11-22", "type": "dissertation", "venue": null, "language": "en", "abstract": "In the last decades, quantum materials have received much attention in the field of condensed matter physics due, in part, to their exotic properties. These are difficult to understand as they result from multiple physical interactions with similar strength, such as charge, spin, orbitals and phonon degrees of freedom. To study and control these interactions, the use of light has emerged as a powerful tool. For example, thanks to recent advantages on X-ray sources it has been possible to improve our understanding of how the atomic structure of quantum materials changes upon photo-excitation. However, these experiments are difficult and there are only a few facilities in the world to perform them. In contrast to X-ray sources, table-top ultrafast laser systems allow us to measure in a systematic manner by performing optical pump-probe spectroscopy. The versatility of this approach enables the simultaneous monitoring of the different degrees of freedom that dictate the properties of quantum materials. In this thesis, we use pump-probe broadband spectroscopy in the visible region to study the structural, electronic and magnetic dynamics with unprecedented detail in two key quantum materials such as Sr3Ir2O7 and V2O3. In Sr3Ir2O7, a compound that undergoes a magnetic phase transition, firstly we study how photo-excitation affects to the reflectivity at a wide range of energies. This provides us information about the electronic and structural properties of this compound. Secondly, we show how to control magnetic order by photoexcitation and demonstrate that light can non-thermally suppress the magnetic long-range order in this material. In V2O3 we characterize its insulator to metal and structural phase transitions. In the metallic state, we show that a key phonon mode is very sensitive to sample inhomogeneity. When taking this into account, we find no evidence for non-thermal lattice dynamics in contrast to existing literature. Furthermore, we show that the light induced transition from the insulator to metallic phase proceeds along a highly damped and incoherent pathway, where vibrational coherence is not observed. En las últimas décadas, los materiales cuánticos han generado un gran interés en el campo de la materia condensada debido, en parte, a sus exóticas propiedades. Éstas son difíciles de comprender ya que surgen de una compleja interacción física entre los distintos grados de libertad como la carga, el espín, el momento orbital y fonones. El uso de la luz surge como una herramienta poderosa para estudiar y controlar estas interacciones. Por ejemplo, gracias a los avances en los sistemas de rayos X se ha mejorado nuestra comprensión de cómo la estructura atómica de los materiales cuánticos cambia bajo la fotoexcitación. Sin embargo, estos experimentos son difíciles y, además, hay escasas instalaciones alrededor del mundo para poder realizarlos. A diferencia de los sistemas de rayos X, los sistemas láseres ultrarrápidos nos permiten medir de una manera sistemática mediante la espectroscopía de bomba-sonda. La versatilidad de esta técnica permite monitorizar de manera simultánea los diferentes grados de libertad que determinan las propiedades de los materiales cuánticos. En esta tesis, utilizamos espectroscopía de bomba-sonda de banda ancha en la región visible para estudiar las dinámicas estructurales, electrónicas y magnéticas con detalles sin precedentes en dos materiales cuánticos clave como Sr3Ir2O7 y V2O3. En Sr3Ir2O7, compuesto que experimenta una transición de fase magnética, estudiamos en primer lugar cómo la fotoexcitación afecta a la reflectividad en un amplio rango de energías. Esto nos proporciona información sobre las propiedades estructurales y electrónicas de dicho compuesto. En segundo lugar, mostramos cómo se puede controlar el orden magnético mediante la fotoexcitación, demostrando que la luz puede suprimir el orden magnético de largo alcance de manera no térmica en este material. En V2O3 caracterizamos la"}
{"screen_id": "S15620", "doi": "10.31979/etd.6d9g-f9j2", "title": "A Multi-method Study of Metamorphism and Fluid Flow During Contact Metamorphism of the May Lake Interpluton Screen, Yosemite National Park, California", "publication_date": "2017-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": null, "language": "en", "abstract": "The May Lake interpluton screen is a 4 km long, ~0.5 km wide swath of metamorphic rock cropping out between plutons of the ~103 Ma Yosemite Valley Intrusive Suite and the ~93-85 Ma Tuolumne Intrusive Suite in Yosemite National Park, California. Metasomatic alteration and recrystallization due to contact metamorphism and fluid infiltration resulted from the emplacement of the Cretaceous plutons. Mineral assemblages are consistent with metamorphism to hornblende-hornfels and amphibolite facies. The presence of sillimanite-bearing metapelite and more Mg-rich clinopyroxene in calc-silicate assemblages of the northeast section of the screen than the southwest suggest higher grade metamorphism was experienced to the northeast. Pseudosection diagrams created from whole rock chemical analyses of three metapelite rocks also indicate higher temperatures in the northeastern section of the screen with minimum temperatures estimated from ~540-617°C. Based on petrographic analysis of andalusite- and sillimanite-bearing metapelite, it is likely that the screen experienced two stages of contact metamorphism: relatively lower temperature metamorphism during intrusion of the Yosemite Valley Intrusive Suite followed by relatively higher temperature contact metamorphism during intrusion of the more mafic Tuolumne Intrusive Suite. Stable isotope data suggest that rock permeability and preexisting structures were the strongest factors controlling fluid infiltration through the contact aureole."}
