{"screen_id": "S25398", "doi": "10.1016/j.susc.2025.122745", "title": "Systematic computational study of oxide adsorption properties for applications in photocatalytic CO2 reduction", "publication_date": "2025-04-07", "type": "article", "venue": "Surface Science", "language": "en", "abstract": "While the adsorption properties of transition metal catalysts have been widely studied, leading to the discovery of various scaling relations, descriptors of catalytic activity, and well-established computational models, a similar understanding of semiconductor catalysts has not yet been achieved. In this work, we present a high-throughput density functional theory investigation into the adsorption properties of 5 oxides of interest to the photocatalytic CO2 reduction reaction: TiO2 (rutile and anatase), SrTiO3, NaTaO3, and CeO2. Using a systematic approach, we exhaustively identify unique surfaces and construct adsorption structures to undergo geometry optimizations. We then perform a data-driven analysis, which reveals the presence of weak adsorption energy scaling relations, the propensity of adsorbates of interest to interact with oxygen surface sites, and the importance of slab deformation upon adsorption. Our findings are presented in the context of experimental observations and in comparison to previously studied classes of catalysts, such as pure metals and tellurium-containing semiconductors, and reinforce the need for a comprehensive approach to the study of site-specific surface phenomena on semiconductors."}
{"screen_id": "S01201", "doi": "10.1016/j.ijhydene.2010.10.098", "title": "RuO2 supported on Sb-doped SnO2 nanoparticles for polymer electrolyte membrane water electrolysers", "publication_date": "2011-04-15", "type": "article", "venue": "International Journal of Hydrogen Energy", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S24042", "doi": "10.1002/jemt.24678", "title": "The role of BaTiO3 nanoparticles as photocatalysts in the synthesis and characterization of novel fruit dyes is investigated", "publication_date": "2024-10-27", "type": "article", "venue": "Microscopy Research and Technique", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract In the present work, the photocatalytic activity against the natural dye extracted from the novel fruits has been studied by the BaTiO3 nanoparticles (NPs) under a ultra‐violet (UV) light source. The large concentrations of an essential phenolic agent present in this phytochemical extract superimposed with cloths fibers make strong stain and degrade into another form of toxic, which is excluded from the many textiles industries as the colorful waste waters without recycling and removal of that dye pigments have been investigated using both photodegradation and photoluminescence techniques. The entitled nanoparticles (NPs) were prepared using the soft chemical root‐modified solvothermal synthesis combo method and exposure to heat treatment such that the annealing process has been done for different temperatures ranging from 100°C to 250°C. As for as concern the characterization, as a start, structural and morphology studies have been reported here that highly crystalline oriented peaks data using powder x‐ray diffraction techniques (PXRD) as well as the surface morphology including the size, shape, and mass distribution using the field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM) techniques, which purely belong to rutile tetragonal structure of the crystal system and circular and noncircular flakes like rough surface morphology materials respectively. The lattice dissociation constant ‘ε’ value of the BaTiO3 NPs has determined to be ~2.71 × 10−3 using the Williamson–Hall (W–H plot) analysis of crystallographic data. In the UV visible spectroscopy findings, since the extreme quantum confinement of BaTiO3 nanoflakes/nanodisc, the optical energy bandgap has been estimated to be a range of 1.98 to 2.67 eV (~2.48 eV) found from the Tauc plot analysis, which contributes to the significantly owing to the enhanced photocatalytic efficiency with excellent performance along exciton formation, superoxide ions, and hydroxyl free radicals generations under UV–vis light irradiation resulting in efficient degradation of typical novel fruit organic dye. Photoluminescence spectra observed at room temperature and low temperature have been observed for the BaTiO3 nanoflakes, which exhibit the blue emission due to the crystalline defects such as the appearance of Ba vacancies leads to the conceivable beginning of p‐type conductivity and the origination of free exciton emission reveals the direct bandgap transition nature of nanoflakes. Research Highlights According to our findings, 89.71% of the natural syzygium cumin is degraded by photocatalysis reaction. As a plausible mechanism for the destruction of natural dyes under solar light, photocatalytic destruction has been proposed. The reaction between these reactive free radical species leads to high efficiency photodegradation with a short decay time. In addition to water treatment and environmental cleaning applications, the excellent performance of this photocatalyst makes it a promising candidate for other applications. Hence, the synthesized BaTiO3 nanoflakes showcase a highly significant advancement towards the development of a textiles dye recycling method."}
{"screen_id": "S04961", "doi": null, "title": "Synthesis of layered carbonaceous materials for degradation of water contaminants", "publication_date": "2016-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "eSpace (Curtin University)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Metal-free graphitic carbon nitride ( g− C3N4 ) currently shows good photocatalytic performances in water splitting and wastewater remediation. In my research, g− C3N4 was modified through different techniques for the enhanced photocatalytic activity in degradation of organic pollutants (Methylene blue, phenol, sulfachloropyridazine) under different radiation sources. The modifications could enlarge its spectrum absorption, increase surface area, suppress electronic pair recombination, increase the activity of free electron for e-/h+charge, and enhance the generation of superoxide radicals in water."}
{"screen_id": "S26231", "doi": "10.3390/nano15130984", "title": "Recent Advances in TiO2-Based Photocatalysts for Efficient Water Splitting to Hydrogen", "publication_date": "2025-06-25", "type": "article", "venue": "Nanomaterials", "language": "en", "abstract": "Titanium dioxide (TiO2) has been widely used as a potential candidate for the production of green hydrogen using the artificial photosynthesis approach. However, the wide bandgap (∼3.3 eV) of anatase TiO2 makes it difficult to absorb a large fraction of the solar radiation reaching the Earth, thus providing a low photocatalytic activity. Anatase TiO2 absorbs only 4% of solar radiation, which can be improved by engineering its bandgap to enhance absorption in the visible region. In the literature, many strategies have been adopted to improve the photocatalytic activity of TiO2, such as metal and non-metal doping and heterojunctions. These techniques have shown incredible enhancement in visible light absorption and improved photocatalytic activity due to their ability to lower the bandgap of pure TiO2 semiconductors. This review highlights different techniques like doping, heterojunctions, acidic modification, creating oxygen vacancies, and temperature- and pressure-dependence, which have improved the photochemical response of TiO2 by improving charge-transfer efficiencies. Additionally, the charge-transfer mechanism and enhancement in the photochemical response of TiO2 is discussed in each portion separately."}
{"screen_id": "S16316", "doi": "10.1016/j.electacta.2022.140875", "title": "The effect of anodizing temperature on the oxygen evolution reaction activity of anodized FeNiCo alloy in alkaline electrolyte", "publication_date": "2022-07-19", "type": "article", "venue": "Electrochimica Acta", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S23706", "doi": "10.1039/d4na00744a", "title": "Tailoring surface morphology on anatase TiO 2 supported Au nanoclusters: implications for O 2 activation", "publication_date": "2024-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Nanoscale Advances", "language": "en", "abstract": "activation under low precious metal loading, which has important implications for electrocatalytic oxidation reactions and the rational design of supported catalysts."}
{"screen_id": "S09083", "doi": "10.1002/er.5124", "title": "Polyoxometalates: Tailoring metal oxides in molecular dimension toward energy applications", "publication_date": "2020-01-14", "type": "article", "venue": "International Journal of Energy Research", "language": "en", "abstract": "Polyoxometalates could be viewed as the molecular counterpart of the metal oxides, which are essential ingredients for various energy conversion and storage applications. In this manuscript, we review the progress of engineering functional polyoxometalates toward energy applications, focusing on, but not limited to, polyoxotitanate, polyoxotungstate, and polyoxomolybdate. These polyoxometalates are considered to be promising candidates for dye-sensitized solar cell, perovskite solar cell, lithium-ion battery, lithium-sulfur battery, supercapacitor, and water-splitting system. We believe advanced energy devices with better performance could be derived from further engineering the polyoxometalates owing to their molecular design flexibility."}
{"screen_id": "S11764", "doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2021.02.001", "title": "Solar light assisted photocatalytic degradation of 1,4-dioxane using high temperature stable anatase W-TiO2 nanocomposites", "publication_date": "2021-02-21", "type": "article", "venue": "Catalysis Today", "language": "en", "abstract": "This work outlines a systematic and detailed study of the modification of anatase TiO2 with tungsten (W). The impact this coupling has on the temperature of the anatase to rutile phase transition and the photocatalytic degradation of 1,4-dioxane, a highly toxic compound that is increasingly present in water bodies is also studied. TiO2 composite photocatalysts with 2, 4, 8 and 16 mol. % W, respectively, were produced using a sol-gel process and then calcined between 500−1000 °C. The crystallinity and phase composition of pure and W-TiO2 photocatalysts were examined using X-ray Diffraction (XRD), Raman spectroscopy and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). All W-TiO2 composite photocatalysts demonstrated 100 % anatase crystalline phase at calcination temperatures as high as 800 °C. Due to the retention of 26 % anatase after calcination at 950 °C, 8 mol. % W was established as the optimum W loading for the development of high temperature stable anatase W-TiO2 composite photocatalysts. The % anatase content also significantly impacts the photocatalytic activity of the W-TiO2 composite photocatalysts. In the presence of solar light, 100 % of 1,4-dioxane was successfully degraded by 2-W-TiO2, 4-W-TiO2 and 8-W-TiO2 composite photocatalysts, respectively, calcined at 800 °C. However, as the calcination temperature increases and the % anatase content decreases, only 70 % of 1,4-dioxane was degraded when using 4-W-TiO2 and 8-W-TiO2 calcined at 900 °C. The highest % removal of 1,4-dioxane was also achieved using 8-W-TiO2 calcined at both 800 and 900 °C. 8-W-TiO2 is therefore considered the optimum sample for both photocatalysis and phase transition temperature."}
{"screen_id": "S28806", "doi": "10.1038/s41563-026-02514-9", "title": "Key role of oxidizing species driving water oxidation revealed by time-resolved optical and X-ray spectroscopies", "publication_date": "2026-02-26", "type": "article", "venue": "Nature Materials", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract Oxidation states underpin the understanding of active states, reaction mechanisms and catalytic performance of electrocatalysts. However, determining them at complex solid–liquid interfaces is challenging. Here we use multimodal spectroscopy to investigate polarized iridium oxide (IrO x ) electrodes, a model water oxidation catalyst, to identify potential-dependent iridium and oxygen oxidation states. By integrating multiple operando spectroscopies (optical (ultraviolet–visible), Ir L-edge and O K-edge X-ray absorption spectroscopy) with electrochemistry mass spectrometry and density functional theory calculations, we identify the sequential depletion of electron densities from the Ir5 d band (corresponding to Ir 3+ →Ir 4+ →Ir 5+ ), followed by electron removal from the O2 p band, forming electrophilic oxygen species (O −1 ) due to enhanced Ir–O covalency and electronic state overlap. Time-resolved measurements reveal distinct lifetimes for Ir 5+ and O −1 states under water oxidation conditions, Ir 5+ remains unreactive whereas O −1 is consumed at a time constant commensurate with the reaction rate, indicating that O −1 drives the oxygen evolution reaction. These findings demonstrate the necessity of using multiple operando techniques to gain a unified understanding of the evolution of oxidation states and active sites with potential for water oxidation on oxide catalysts."}
{"screen_id": "S19320", "doi": "10.31390/gradschool_theses.5683", "title": "Archean Metamorphosed Ultramafic Rocks and Chromitites from the Beartooth Mountains, Montana, USA: Insights into Mantle Geochemistry and Tectonics", "publication_date": "2022-10-24", "type": "dissertation", "venue": null, "language": "en", "abstract": "Metamorphosed ultramafic rocks and associated chromitite pods in the eastern Beartooth Mountains, Montana (USA) provide a window into the tectonic evolution of the Archean northern Wyoming Province. Meta-ultramafic rocks occur with a variety of metasupracrustal rocks as xenoliths in an extensive 2.8 Ga suite of TTG (meta)plutonic rocks. The origin of the ultramafic rocks is obscured by an upper amphibolite-to-greenschist facies overprint. Major element analyses (XRF, wt. %) of meta-ultramafic host rocks show SiO2 from 40.53-50.37, MgO from 15.33-45.25, TiO2 from 0.07-0.62, Al2O3 from 1.25-10.62, and Fe2O3(t) from 8.06-14.54. Total alkali contents (Na2O+K2O) range from 0.06-3.78 wt.% and plot in the picro-basalt and basalt fields on a TAS diagram and gabbro and peridot-gabbro fields on the plutonic equivalent TAS diagram. Major oxide whole-rock analyses for meta-ultramafic host rocks plot within boninitic and komatiitic fields based on their high MgO and low TiO2 values. Cr contents of non-chromitites are high (1500-6500 ppm). Primitive mantle normalized spider diagrams show arc characteristics, e.g., enrichments and depletions in LILE, a positive lead anomaly, and negative HFSE anomalies. In contrast, chromitite pods (ultramafic rocks with >75% chromite) contain chromite grains that retain their igneous chemistry and textures. Pull-apart textures, relatively large (>1 mm) to massive anhedral chromite, and poorly developed/tectonically disrupted chromite nodules are inconsistent with derivation from a layered mafic intrusion. Major and trace element analyses of chromites by electron microprobe show chromites have minor compositional zoning with the rims being slightly enriched in Mg and Al at the expense of Cr and Fe2+. Chromites have Cr/(Cr+Al) from 0.69-0.83 and Mg/(Mg+Fe2+) from 0.11-0.56, consistent with derivation from an ophiolite sequence or layered mafic intrusion. Low TiO2 concentrations of chromite from meta-chromitites are inconsistent with derivation from a layered mafic intrusion. Melts calculated to be in equilibrium with chromite are boninitic in character. In conclusion, the boninitic/ophiolitic/arc geochemical signature of the meta-chromites and meta-ultramafic rocks suggest that they formed in the forearc of an early subduction setting. These rocks were intercalated with a variety of lithologies during an episode of plate convergence that preceded the 2.8 Ga TTG plutonism."}
{"screen_id": "S07429", "doi": "10.1039/c9nh00100j", "title": "Theory-guided materials design: two-dimensional MXenes in electro- and photocatalysis", "publication_date": "2019-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Nanoscale Horizons", "language": "en", "abstract": "A critical review on how theory-guided materials design can enhance MXene based catalyst discovery and development process."}
{"screen_id": "S07574", "doi": "10.1002/aenm.201900624", "title": "Single Atoms and Clusters Based Nanomaterials for Hydrogen Evolution, Oxygen Evolution Reactions, and Full Water Splitting", "publication_date": "2019-05-02", "type": "article", "venue": "Advanced Energy Materials", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract The sustainable and scalable production of hydrogen through hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and oxygen through oxygen evolution reaction (OER) in water splitting demands efficient and robust electrocatalysts. Currently, state‐of‐the‐art electrocatalysts of Pt and IrO2/RuO2 exhibit the benchmark catalytic activity toward HER and OER, respectively. However, expanding their practical application is hindered by their exorbitant price and scarcity. Therefore, the development of alternative effective electrocatalysts for water splitting is crucial. In the last few decades, substantial effort has been devoted to the development of alternative HER/OER and water splitting catalysts based on various transition metals (including Fe, Co, Ni, Mo, and atomic Pt) which show promising catalytic activities and durability. In this review, after a brief introduction and basic mechanism of HER/OER, the authors systematically discuss the recent progress in design, synthesis, and application of single atom and cluster‐based HER/OER and water splitting catalysts. Moreover, the crucial factors that can tune the activity of catalysts toward HER/OER and water splitting such as morphology, crystal defects, hybridization of metals with nonmetals, heteroatom doping, alloying, and formation of metals inside graphitic layered materials are discussed. Finally, the existing challenges and future perspectives for improving the performance of electrocatalysts for water splitting are addressed."}
{"screen_id": "S11588", "doi": "10.26434/chemrxiv.7240823.v1", "title": "Activation of Water on MnOx-Modified Rutile (110) and Anatase (101) TiO2 and the Role of Cation Reduction", "publication_date": "2018-10-23", "type": "preprint", "venue": "ChemRxiv", "language": "en", "abstract": "Surface modification of titania surfaces with dispersed metal oxide nanoclusters has the potential to enhance photocatalytic activity. These modifications can induce visible light absorption and suppress charge carrier recombination which are vital in improving the efficiency. We have studied heterostructures of Mn 4 O 6 nanoclusters modifying the TiO 2 rutile (110) and anatase (101) surfaces using density functional theory corrected for on-site Coulomb interactions (DFT + U). Such studies typically focus on the pristine surface, free of the point defects and surface hydroxyls present in real surfaces. In our study we have considered partial hydroxylation of the rutile and anatase surfaces and the role of cation reduction, via oxygen vacancy formation, and how this impacts on a variety of properties governing the photocatalytic performance such as nanocluster adsorption, light absorption, charge separation and reducibility. Our results indicate that the modifiers adsorb strongly at the surface and that modification extends light absorption into the visible range. MnO x -modified anatase can show an off-stoichiometric ground state, through oxygen vacancy formation and cation reduction spontaneously, and both modified rutile and anatase are highly reducible with moderate energy costs. Manganese ions are therefore present in a mixture of oxidation states. Photoexcited electrons and holes localize at cluster metal and oxygen sites, respectively. The interaction of water at the modified surfaces depends on the stoichiometry and spontaneous dissociation to surface bound hydroxyls is favoured in the presence of oxygen vacancies and reduced metal cations. Comparisons with bare TiO 2 and other TiO 2 -based photocatalyst materials are presented throughout."}
{"screen_id": "S23547", "doi": "10.1002/adfm.202409306", "title": "Interface and Electronic Structure Regulation of RuO2 through Ru/RuO2 Heterointerface Construction and Zn Atom‐Doping for High‐Performance Overall Water Splitting in Both Alkaline and Acidic Media", "publication_date": "2024-08-06", "type": "article", "venue": "Advanced Functional Materials", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract Rational design and fabrication of efficient catalysts for overall water splitting in an integrated electrolyzer are essential for energy storage and conversion. Herein, an ultra‐small substitutional Zn‐doped Ru/RuO2 heterostructure (5.6 nm) is synthesized through a facile pyrolyzing strategy as an efficient bi‐functional electrocatalyst for water splitting in both acidic and alkaline media. Experiments demonstrate that introducing appropriate alien atoms into RuO2 with an amorphous state can effectively optimize the electron structure and expose abundant defects, and thus increasing the number of active sites and improving the intrinsic activity of RuO2 for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER). In addition, the high hydrogen adsorption capability of metallic Ru makes Ru‐RuO2 heterointerface suitable for water splitting. Notably, the Ru/ZnRuO2 displays low overpotentials at 10 mA cm−2 with only 184 mV for OER in 0.5 m H2SO4 and 35 mV for HER in 1.0 m KOH. Besides, the as‐synthesized Ru/ZnRuO2 displays cell voltages of 1.540 and 1.567 V (at 10 mA cm−2) for water splitting with remarkable durability for more than 220 and 100 h, respectively, in acidic and alkaline media. This work provides a facile strategy for designing pH‐universal electrocatalysts toward overall water splitting."}
