{"screen_id": "S24201", "doi": "10.48550/arxiv.2411.03937", "title": "Explicit demonstration of the equivalence between DFT+U and the Hartree-Fock limit of DFT+DMFT", "publication_date": "2024-11-06", "type": "preprint", "venue": "arXiv (Cornell University)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Several methods have been developed to improve the predictions of density functional theory (DFT) in the case of strongly correlated electron systems. Out of these approaches, DFT+$U$, which corresponds to a static treatment of the local interaction, and DFT combined with dynamical mean field theory (DFT+DMFT), which considers local fluctuations, have both proven incredibly valuable in tackling the description of materials with strong local electron-electron interactions. While it is in principle known that the Hartree-Fock (HF) limit of the DFT+DMFT approach should recover DFT+$U$, demonstrating this equivalence in practice is challenging, due to the very different ways in which the two approaches are generally implemented. In this work, we introduce a way to perform DFT+$U$ calculations in Quantum ESPRESSO using Wannier functions as calculated by Wannier90, which allows us to use the same Hubbard projector functions both in DFT+$U$ and in DFT+DMFT. We benchmark these DFT+$U$ calculations against DFT+DMFT calculations where the DMFT impurity problem is solved within the HF approximation. Considering a number of prototypical materials including NiO, MnO, LaMnO$_3$, and LuNiO$_3$, we establish the sameness of the two approaches. Finally, we showcase the versatility of our approach by going beyond the commonly used atomic orbital-like projectors by performing DFT+$U$ calculations for VO$_2$ using a special set of bond-centered Wannier functions."}
{"screen_id": "S24034", "doi": "10.1039/d4ma00783b", "title": "A MoS 2 quantum dot functionalized TiO 2 nanotube array for selective detection of xylene at low temperature", "publication_date": "2024-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Materials Advances", "language": "en", "abstract": "Electrochemically synthesized TiO 2 nanotube array was functionalized with MoS 2 quantum dots and transformed into metal–insulator–metal type sensor which exhibited xylene selectivity with high response magnitude at low operating temperature."}
{"screen_id": "S24532", "doi": "10.1149/ma2024-02422757mtgabs", "title": "Electrocatalysis of Oxygen Evolution by Metal Oxides through Atomically-Thin Carbon", "publication_date": "2024-11-22", "type": "conference-abstract", "venue": "ECS Meeting Abstracts", "language": "en", "abstract": "The oxygen evolution reaction (OER) is slow at most electrocatalysts and the preparation of inexpensive, sustainable, stable, and high-performance OER electrocatalysts remains the largest obstacle in the development of new electrolyzers. Carbon-coated metal/metal oxide (nano)particles have been used in such applications but the role played by the carbon coatings has provoked debate in the field and is poorly understood. Here, we show that the coating itself acts as the active site in OER, with the underlying material activating the carbon through a charge-transfer mechanism. We demonstrate this phenomenon by encapsulating < 2 nm metal-oxide (MOx) electrocatalyst nanoparticles within single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWNT) to form Co3O4@SWNT, RuO2@SWNT and IrO2@SWNT. Access of electrolyte to the encapsulated metal oxides is blocked by plugging the SWNTs with fullerenes, which shuts off redox processes inherent to the encapsulated metal oxide but does not affect catalytic activity, showing that the carbon surface is the active OER site. This conclusion is supported by Tafel analysis which demonstrates that the rate-determining step for the OER is the same at MOx@SWNT and pristine SWNTs but different to that at bare MOx. In-situ electrochemical Raman spectroscopy and computational analysis demonstrate that charge transfer from the carbon shell to the metal oxide occurs during the OER. This charge transfer results in a decrease in electron density on the carbon surface, which may facilitate binding of –OH to the carbon surface. This is the first step in the OER and may be key to the activity of the hybrid nanomaterials. This understanding of how carbon coatings play an active role in electrocatalytic reactions is crucial for the development of future electrocatalysts for the OER, and the proposed charge transfer-driven mechanism could be tuneable to both oxidative and reductive reactions. These insights indicate that the route to high performance, sustainable electrocatalysts may be through electronic modification of conductive carbons, potentially through an interaction with inexpensive redox-active material which could be directed towards the development of reduction or oxidation electrocatalysts."}
{"screen_id": "S01769", "doi": null, "title": "Development of Electro-active Graphene Nanoplatelets and Composites for Application as Electrodes within Supercapacitors", "publication_date": "2012-02-29", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "UWSpace (University of Waterloo)", "language": "en", "abstract": "The mounting concern for renewable energies from ecologically conscious alternatives is growing in parallel with the demand for portable energy storage devices, fuelling research in the fields of electrochemical energy storage technologies. The supercapacitor, also known as electrochemical capacitor, is an energy storage device possessing a near infinite life-cycle and high power density recognized to store energy in an electrostatic double-layer, or through a pseudocapacitance mechanism as a result of an applied potential. The power density of supercapacitors far exceeds that of batteries with an ability to charge and discharge stored energy within seconds. Supercapacitors compliment this characteristic very well with a cycle life in excess of 106 cycles of deep discharge within a wide operational temperature range, and generally require no further maintenance upon integration. Conscientious of environmental standards, these devices are also recyclable. \\nElectrochemical capacitors are currently a promising candidate to assist in addressing energy storage concerns, particularly in hybridized energy storage systems where batteries and supercapacitors compliment each other’s strengths; however specific challenges must be addressed to realize their potential. In order to further build upon the range of supercapacitors for future market applications, advancements made in nanomaterial research and design are expected to continue the materials development trend with a goal to improve the energy density through the development of a cost-efficient and correspondingly plentiful material. However, it is important to note that the characteristic power performance and exceptional life-cycle should be preserved alongside these efforts to maintain their niche as a power device, and not simply develop an alternative to the average battery. It is with this clear objective that this thesis presents research on an emerging carbon material derived from an abundant precursor, where the investigations focus on its potential to achieve high energy and power density, stability and integration with other electroactive materials. \\nActivated carbons have been the dominant carbon material used in electric double-layer capacitors since their inception in the early 1970s. Despite a wide range of carbon precursors and activation methods available for the generation of high surface area carbons, difficulties remain in controlling the pore size distribution, pore shape and an interconnected pore structure to achieve a high energy density. These factors have restricted the market growth for supercapacitors in terms of the price per unit of energy storage. Activation procedures and subsequent processes for these materials can also be energy intensive (i.e. high temperatures) or environmentally unfriendly, thus the challenge remains in fabricating an inexpensive high surface-area electroactive material with favourable physical properties from a source available in abundance. \\n\\t Double-layer capacitive materials researched to replace active carbons generally require properties that include: high, accessible surface-area; good electrical conductivity; a pore size distribution that includes mesopore and micropore; structural stability; and possibly functional groups that lend to energy storage through pseudocapacitive mechanisms. Templated, fibrous and aerogel carbons offer an alternative to activated carbons; however the drawbacks to these materials can include difficult preparation procedures or deficient physical properties with respect to those listed above. In recent years nanostructured carbon materials possessing favourable properties have also contributed to the field. \\n\\tGraphene nanoplatelet (GNP) and carbon nanotube (CNT) are nanostructured materials that are being progressively explored for suitable development as supercapacitor electrodes. As carbon lattice structured materials either in the form of a 2-dimensional sheet or rolled into a cylinder"}
{"screen_id": "S09637", "doi": "10.1016/j.jpowsour.2020.228205", "title": "Fabrication strategies for high-rate TiO2 nanotube anodes for Li ion energy storage", "publication_date": "2020-04-27", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Power Sources", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S20098", "doi": "10.3390/coatings13081461", "title": "A Cost-Effective, Nanoporous, High-Entropy Oxide Electrode for Electrocatalytic Water Splitting", "publication_date": "2023-08-19", "type": "article", "venue": "Coatings", "language": "en", "abstract": "High-entropy materials have attracted extensive attention as emerging electrode materials in various energy applications due to their flexible tunability, unusual outstanding activities, and cost-effectiveness using multiple earth-abundant elements. We introduce a novel high-entropy composite oxide with the five elements of Cu, Ni, Co, Fe, and Cr (HEO-3CNF) for use in the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) in electrocatalytic water splitting. HEO-3CNF is composed of two phases with a non-equimolar, deficient high-entropy spinel oxide of (Cu0.2−xNi0.2Co0.2Fe0.2Cr0.2)3O4 and monoclinic copper oxide (CuO). Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) with distribution of relaxation times (DRT) analysis validates that the HEO-3CNF-based electrode exhibits faster charge transfer than benchmark CuO. It results in improved OER performance with a lower overpotential at 10 mA/cm2 and a Tafel slope than CuO (518.1 mV and 119.7 mV/dec versus 615.9 mV and 131.7 mV/dec, respectively) in alkaline conditions. This work may provide a general strategy for preparing novel, cost-effective, high-entropy electrodes for water splitting."}
{"screen_id": "S00641", "doi": "10.1016/j.jmrt.2014.11.005", "title": "Synthesis of spherical mesoporous titania modified iron-niobate nanoclusters for photocatalytic reduction of 4-nitrophenol", "publication_date": "2014-12-29", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Materials Research and Technology", "language": "en", "abstract": "Spherical mesoporous titania modified iron-niobate nanoclusters FNT1 [FexNbxTi1−2xO2−x/2 (x = 0.01)], with relatively small particle size 10 ± 2 nm and SBET 145 m2 g−1 were prepared using a sol–gel method, from the reaction of titanium and niobium tartrate with triethanol amine and ferric nitrate solution. HRTEM of FNT1 shows coexistence of porous mesostructure and high symmetric order of crystallinity in the nanoparticles. The mesopore size is in the range of 4–5 nm and the lattice fringes of 0.37 nm is observed in the mesopore walls which correspond to the d-spacing between adjacent (101) crystallographic planes of FNT1 phase. This is supported by XRD studies. In the presence of UV light, FNT1 (0.1 g/50 mL) reduces the 4-nitrophenol (4-NP) (0.0139 g L−1) to 4-aminophenol by using NaBH4 (0.054 g L−1) in contrast to pure TiO2 and other composites of FexNbxTi1−2xO2−x/2 photocatalysts. The 4-NP is reduced to 4-aminophenol within 10 min in the presence of FNT1 and UV light, but in the absence of the catalysts, it takes approximately 82 min. The catalytic activity of FNT1 is enhanced significantly in the presence of UV light compared to the absence of UV light. We observed that the catalytic activity of the prepared catalyst also depends on crystal size, particle morphology and particle porosity, and dopant concentrations."}
{"screen_id": "S23060", "doi": "10.1029/2023je008234", "title": "Mantle Mineralogy of Reduced Sub‐Earths Exoplanets and Exo‐Mercuries", "publication_date": "2024-06-27", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Geophysical Research Planets", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract The mineralogy of planetary mantles formed under reducing conditions, as documented in the inner regions of the solar system, is not well constrained. We present thermodynamic models of mineral assemblages that would constitute the mantles of exo‐Mercuries. We investigated reduced materials such as enstatite chondrites, CH, and CB chondrites, and aubrites, as precursor bulk compositions in phase equilibrium modeling. The resulting isochemical phase diagram sections indicate that dominant phases in these reduced mantles would be pyroxenes rather than olivine, contrasting with the olivine‐rich mantles found within Earth, Mars, and Venus. The pyroxene abundances in the modeled mantles assemblages depend on the silica content shown by precursor materials. The silica abundance in the mantle is closely related to Si abundance in the core, particularly in reduced environments. In addition, we propose that pyroxene‐rich mantles exhibit more vigorous convective and tectonic activity than olivine‐rich mantles, given that pyroxene‐rich mantles would have lower viscosity and a lower solidus temperature ( Ts )."}
{"screen_id": "S23775", "doi": "10.1039/d4gc03330b", "title": "Straightforward solid-phase modification of TiO 2 with propylphosphonic acid via manual grinding and shaker mixing: enhancing modification degree by thermal control while improving atom economy", "publication_date": "2024-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Green Chemistry", "language": "en", "abstract": "The straightforward manual grinding method achieves controllable grafting of organophosphonic acid onto TiO 2 , demonstrating its atom economy and greenness."}
{"screen_id": "S30217", "doi": "10.1002/sstr.202500796", "title": "Single‐Step Continuous‐Flow Strain Engineering of Multiphase Titanate–TiO 2 ‐Reduced Graphene Oxide Nanocomposites for Dual Photo‐ and Mechanocatalytic Activity", "publication_date": "2026-07-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Small Structures", "language": "en", "abstract": "Strain engineering is an effective strategy to tune the electronic structure and catalytic performance of functional materials. Here, we demonstrate a single‐step continuous hydrothermal flow synthesis (CHFS) that produces multiphase titanate‐TiO 2 ‐reduced graphene oxide (rGO) nanocomposites capable of both photocatalytic and mechanocatalytic activity. In this approach, in situ KOH‐mediated reduction of graphene oxide introduces interfacial lattice strain and directs the co‐crystallisation of anatase TiO 2 , layered K 2 Ti 4 O 9 , and metastable TiO 2 (B). The resulting multiphase composites feature strain gradients and nanoscale heterojunctions that enhance visible‐light absorption, charge separation, and mechanically assisted catalytic response. Density functional theory (DFT) simulations confirm strain‐induced bandgap narrowing and charge redistribution at oxide–2D interfaces. Under simultaneous visible‐light irradiation and mechanical stirring, these hybrids achieved near‐complete degradation of concentrated aqueous methylene blue (0.04 mM) within 60 min, with an apparent dual‐mode rate constant of 0.1046 min −1 , outperforming conventional photocatalysts. This single‐step, scalable platform provides a general route to design multifunctional catalysts for environmental remediation and solar‐to‐chemical energy conversion."}
{"screen_id": "S01712", "doi": "10.32657/10356/59237", "title": "Novel titanium dioxide nanocomposites and nanostructures for high performance dye-sensitized solar cells", "publication_date": "2014-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": null, "language": "en", "abstract": "single-crystalline TiO 2 -"}
{"screen_id": "S03067", "doi": "10.1590/s1517-707620160002.0029", "title": "First Principles Study on the Electronic Structure and Optical Property of Nd-C Codoped Anatase TiO 2", "publication_date": "2016-06-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Matéria (Rio de Janeiro)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Band structures, density of states, and absorption spectra of pure, Nd doped, C doped, and Nd-C codoped TiO2 are calculated using first-principles based on density functional theory. Calculation results show that Nd 4f state forms empty impurity energy levels below conduction band, and C 2p state together with Nd 2f state forms occupied impurity energy levels with higher density than that of single doped TiO2 above valence band. Consequently, more electrons in occupied energy levels can be excited by visible light to empty Nd 4f states rather than Ti 3d states, resulting in further enhancement of visible light absorption and absorption edge red shift. In addition, the impurity energy levels act as carriers trap centers, thus decreasing the recombination rate of carriers."}
{"screen_id": "S14965", "doi": "10.1016/j.checat.2022.03.015", "title": "Defect engineering over anisotropic brookite toward substrate-specific photo-oxidation of alcohols", "publication_date": "2022-04-13", "type": "article", "venue": "Chem Catalysis", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S15568", "doi": "10.26434/chemrxiv-2021-r621x", "title": "Constant inner potential DFT for modelling electrochemical systems under constant potential and bias", "publication_date": "2021-09-21", "type": "preprint", "venue": "ChemRxiv", "language": "en", "abstract": "Electrochemical interfaces and reactions play a decisive role in e.g. clean energy conversion but understanding their complex chemistry remains an outstanding challenge. Constant potential or grand canonical ensemble (GCE) simulations are indispensable for unraveling the properties of electrochemical processes as a function of the electrode potential. Currently, constant electrode potential calculations at the density functional theory (DFT) level are carried out by fixing the Fermi level of the simulation cell. However, the Fermi level from DFT calculations does does not always reflect the experimentally controlled electrode potential or describe the thermodynamic independent variable in GCE-DFT i.e the electrochemical potential of an electron reservoir. Here we develop and implement the constant inner potential (CIP) method as a more robust and general approach to GCE-DFT simulations of electrochemical systems under constant potential or bias conditions. The CIP is shown to directly control the reservoir electron electrochemical potential making the method widely applicable in simulating electrochemical interfaces. We demonstrate that the CIP and Fermi level GCE-DFT approaches are equivalent for metallic electrodes and inner sphere reactions. The CIP method is shown to be applicable in simulating also semiconductor electrodes, outer sphere reactions, and a biased two-electrode cell for which the Fermi level approach does not reflect the experimental electrode potential. Unlike the Fermi level method, CIP does not require any electronic structure information as only the inner potential is needed, which makes the approach more compatible with classical force field or machine learning potentials. The CIP approach emerges as a general GCE DFT method to simulate (photo)electrochemical interfaces from first principles."}
{"screen_id": "S26912", "doi": "10.3390/pr13092943", "title": "Photoelectrocatalytic Activity of ZnO/RuO2 Composites Toward HER and OER Reactions: The Importance of Surface and Bulk Oxygen Vacancies", "publication_date": "2025-09-15", "type": "article", "venue": "Processes", "language": "en", "abstract": "With the aim of reducing catalysts’ cost while maintaining high performance in water splitting, ZnO and RuO2 were combined into composites with ZnO to RuO2 mass ratios of 1:1, 2:1, and 10:1. The ZnO/RuO2 composites were prepared by microwave processing of a suspension containing Zn(OH)2 in situ precipitated onto RuO2 powder, and subsequently thermally modified at 600 °C to promote heterojunction formation and alter the defect chemistry. Phase composition, crystal structure, morphology, and optical properties were analyzed in detail employing XRD, TEM/HRTEM, HAADF-STEM with EDS, PL and XPS spectroscopy. The photoelectrocatalytic (PEC) activity of the composites toward the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) was evaluated by linear sweep voltammetry in alkaline electrolyte (0.1 M NaOH, pH 13), before and after one hour of electrochemical system illumination. The analysis focused on surface and bulk oxygen vacancies, which may have a crucial impact in PEC activity, by (1) promoting charge separation and increasing the number of active sites thus enhancing PEC activity, or (2) acting as electron–hole traps and recombination centers, reducing the lifetime of photo-induced charge carriers and thus deteriorating PEC activity. The presented results demonstrate that the combination of ZnO with RuO2 in a specific mass ratio, along with controlled defect structure, offers a worthwhile route for developing bifunctional, noble-metal-reduced catalysts for green hydrogen and oxygen production."}
