{"screen_id": "S02981", "doi": "10.1107/s1600577516001193", "title": "FDMX : extended X-ray absorption fine structure calculations using the finite difference method", "publication_date": "2016-02-17", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Synchrotron Radiation", "language": "en", "abstract": "A new theoretical approach and computational package, FDMX, for general calculations of X-ray absorption fine structure (XAFS) over an extended energy range within a full-potential model is presented. The final-state photoelectron wavefunction is calculated over an energy-dependent spatial mesh, allowing for a complete representation of all scattering paths. The electronic potentials and corresponding wavefunctions are subject to constraints based on physicality and self-consistency, allowing for accurate absorption cross sections in the near-edge region, while higher-energy results are enabled by the implementation of effective Debye-Waller damping and new implementations of second-order lifetime broadening. These include inelastic photoelectron scattering and, for the first time, plasmon excitation coupling. This is the first full-potential package available that can calculate accurate XAFS spectra across a complete energy range within a single framework and without fitted parameters. Example spectra are provided for elemental Sn, rutile TiO2 and the FeO6 octahedron."}
{"screen_id": "S12955", "doi": "10.21926/cr.2103001", "title": "Development of an Efficient Bi-Functional Catalyst made of a Novel Hybrid Material for Rechargeable Zn-Air Battery", "publication_date": "2021-07-16", "type": "article", "venue": "Catalysis Research", "language": "en", "abstract": "One-pot synthesis of mesoporous hybrid material consisting of Mn-Co/CoO nanoparticles encapsulated in an N-doped graphene shell decorated with Mo2C nanoparticles (Mo2C-NC@Mn-Co/CoO) was reported. The Mn and Mo components synergistically refined the graphitized carbons due to the interactions with N and C atoms while promoting the stability of the Co/CoO nanoparticles. These components exhibited a beneficial effect on the dispersion of the active metal/metal oxide nanoparticles and the formation of a mesoporous structure under high-temperature conditions, which together led to optimized oxygen adsorption/desorption capabilities as well as mass transport properties. The hybrid material showed high bifunctional performance for both oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), as well as promising catalytic properties as the air electrode in a zinc-air battery, featuring superior long-term cycle stability comparable to that of Pt-C/RuO2 materials."}
{"screen_id": "S19640", "doi": "10.3390/min13070878", "title": "Magmatic–Hydrothermal Transport of Metals at Arc Plutonic Roots: Insights from the Ildeus Mafic–Ultramafic Complex, Stanovoy Suture Zone (Russian Far East)", "publication_date": "2023-06-29", "type": "article", "venue": "Minerals", "language": "en", "abstract": "The Ildeus mafic–ultramafic complex represents plutonic roots of a Triassic magmatic arc tectonically emplaced into the thickened uppermost crust beneath the Mesozoic Stanovoy collided margin. The mafic–ultramafic complex cumulates host Ni-Co-Cu-Pt-Ag-Au sulfide-native metal-alloy mineralization produced through magmatic differentiation of subduction-related primary mafic melt. This melt was sourced in the metal-rich sub-arc mantle wedge hybridized by reduced high-temperature H-S-Cl fluids and slab/sediment-derived siliceous melts carrying significant amounts of Pt, W, Au, Ag, Cu and Zn. Plutonic rocks experienced a pervasive later-stage metasomatic upgrade of the primary sulfide–native metal–alloy assemblage in the presence of oxidized hydrothermal fluid enriched in sulfate and chlorine. The new metasomatic assemblage formed in a shallow epithermal environment in the collided crust includes native gold, Ag-Au, Cu-Ag and Cu-Ag-Au alloys, heazlewoodite, digenite, chalcocite, cassiterite, galena, sphalerite, acanthite, composite Cu-Zn-Pb-Fe sulfides, Sb-As-Se sulfosalts and Pb-Ag tellurides. A two-stage model for magmatic–hydrothermal transport of some siderophile (W, Pt, Au) and chalcophile (Cu, Zn, Ag) metals in subduction–collision environments is proposed."}
{"screen_id": "S28203", "doi": null, "title": "Removal of reactive black 5 dye from aqueous solution by adsorption and/or electrochemical oxidation", "publication_date": "2025-02-27", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "LA Referencia (Red Federada de Repositorios Institucionales de Publicaciones Científicas)", "language": "pt", "abstract": "The expansion of the textile sector has played a fundamental role in accelerating industrialization on a global scale. However, this industry has caused significant environmental impacts, particularly due to the improper disposal of effluents with high contamination loads, including azo dyes, with reactive black 5 (RB-5) being one of the most concerning. Thus, the search for effective decontamination methods is essential, among which adsorption and electrochemical advanced oxidation processes stand out as promising strategies for the removal of these pollutants. This study investigated adsorption and electrochemical oxidation applied to RB-5 removal in synthetic effluents. In the adsorption process, a C/TiO2 composite was developed and characterized. X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis indicated that both the composite and the TiO₂ support predominantly exhibited anatase phases. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) revealed morphological changes in the material after adsorption. The specific surface area of the adsorbent was approximately 54.24 m2 g–1, while Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) confirmed the presence of various functional groups, some of which were related to the dye structure after adsorption. The point of zero charge (pHPZC) indicated favorable adsorption conditions for pH ≤ 7.47. After fitting to nonlinear equations, the Sips model best described the adsorption equilibrium. On the other hand, the adsorption kinetics followed the Avrami fractional order model, suggesting an adsorption governed by multiple stages. Thermodynamically, adsorption was classified as endothermic, entropy-controlled, and exergonic. The electrochemical oxidation process involved the development and characterization of dimensionally stable anode (DSA) with the Ti/IrO2-SnO2-Ta2O5 configuration. XRD analysis of the electrodes revealed characteristic phases of IrO2, SnO2, Ti, and Ta2O5, while SEM images displayed the typical \"cracked mud\" morphology. Cyclic voltammetry (H2SO4) evidenced the capacitive behavior of the electrodes, with a roughness factor ranging from 0.3260 to 0.6812. Electrochemical mass spectrometry (EC-MS) confirmed the predominance of electrogenerated molecular chlorine (Cl2) over the oxygen evolution reaction, especially under high Sn/Ta ratios and acidic pH conditions. Ion chromatography (IC) allowed the quantification of Cl⁻ and ClO⁻, while electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) evidenced that Cl₂/HOCl formation occurs at potentials above 1.25 V vs. Ag/AgCl, with lower charge transfer resistance (Rtc) in compositions containing up to 10% Ta. The chemical and structural stability of the electrodes was confirmed by the nearly constant solution resistance (Rs) and double-layer capacitance (Cdl), which indicated rough and porous surfaces. The RB-5 dye degradation process was efficient, with apparent rate constants ranging from 0.00121 to 0.00571 s–1, being most effective in the Ir/Sn/Ta 30:70:00, 30:65:05, and 30:60:10 electrodes. The chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal varied between 71.72% and 32.47%, and energy consumption was lower (0.482 kWh m–3) for compositions with lower Ta content. The results highlight the feasibility of both techniques (adsorption and electrochemical oxidation) for the treatment of industrial effluents containing dyes"}
{"screen_id": "S27953", "doi": null, "title": "Hydrodynamic and energetic analysis of an electrolysis cell for hydrogen production using openfoam", "publication_date": "2025-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "Univalle Digital Repository (University of Valle)", "language": "en", "abstract": "This study presents a hydrodynamic and energetic analysis of a parallel-plate electrolysis cell using the open-source Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) software OpenFOAM. An Eulerian multiphase model was applied to simulate turbulent, gas-evolving flows coupled with electrochemical phenomena under potentiostatic and galvanostatic operation. The simulation results agreed within 4% of an experimentally measured polarization curve of a vertical parallel-plate electrolysis cell equipped with TiO2/IrO2 electrodes. Using the validated model, an analysis of the effect of the flowrate on the cell voltage and specific energy consumption at different current densities was carried out. A threefold reduction in the flowrate showed an average 1.3% increase in the cell voltage, attributed to the observed formation of a gas curtain near the electrodes, which was more prominent at higher current densities. Other hydrodynamic behavior like gas accumulation could be studied, observing that under the operating conditions, the electrolyte backflow through the gaps between the electrodes and the cell walls was not strong enough to carry the gas bubbles down the cell and back into the interelectrode gap."}
