{"screen_id": "S11154", "doi": "10.1016/j.sesci.2020.10.003", "title": "Geochronology and geochemistry of the intrusive rocks in Yucun Au deposit, Jiangnan Transition Belt, Eastern China: Constraints on their petrogenesis, geodynamical setting and mineralization", "publication_date": "2020-11-24", "type": "article", "venue": "Solid Earth Sciences", "language": "en", "abstract": "A large number of Au polymetallic deposits have been mined in the Jiangnan Transition Belt (JTB), Eastern China. However, the formation and genesis of these Au polymetallic deposits remain unclear. Based on geochronological, geochemical, in-situ Lu–Hf and S isotopic compositions of the Yucun Au deposit, combined with other Au deposit databases in the JTB (e.g., Zhaceqiao, Zhaojialing and Huashan), this study systemically reveals the petrogenesis of the granodiorite porphyries and granite porphyries related to gold deposits, as well as constrain the process of Au mineralization. Results show that all granodiorite porphyries and granite porphyries have high alkalis content and FeO/MgO ratios, low CaO, Al2O3, P2O5 and 10000 × Ga/Al contents, indicating the I-type granite affinity. Moreover, they are enriched in large ion lithophile elements (LILEs), light rare earth elements (LREEs) and depleted in high field strength elements (HFSEs) and heavy rare earth elements (HREEs), with weak negative Eu anomalies. Zircon 206Pb/238U ages indicate that the Yucun ore-related intrusion rocks were emplaced ca.150 Ma, which are consistent with the first stage magmatic activity in eastern China. The Yucun intrusion rocks present high zircon Ce4+/Ce3+ and Eu/Eu∗ ratios, suggesting the high magmatic oxygen fugacity, which is conducive to the Cu–Au mineralization. The geochemical and Lu–Hf isotopic compositions indicate that intrusion rocks associated with Au deposit in JTB may come from the metasomatized mantle-derived magmas mixing with Proterozoic crustal materials. The δ34S values of pyrite of ores in Yucun Au deposit indicate a magmatic-derived source, resembling in other porphyry-skarn Au deposits in the JTB."}
{"screen_id": "S08116", "doi": "10.4138/atlgeol.2019.005", "title": "Atlantic Geoscience Society Abstracts: 45th Annual Colloquium & General Meeting 2019", "publication_date": "2019-05-21", "type": "article", "venue": "Atlantic Geology", "language": "en", "abstract": "In the following pages, we are pleased to publish the abstracts of oral and poster presentations from the meeting, which included the following Special Sessions: ( 1) Mapping, Petrology, Geochemistry, and Mineral Deposits: In Memory of Dr. Trevor MacHattie (1974-2018); (2) Paleontology and Sedimentology in Atlantic Canada: In Memory of Dr. Ron Pickerill (1947-2018); (3) Current Research in Carboniferous Geology in the Atlantic Provinces; (4) Minerals, Metals, Melts, and Fluids Associated with Granitoid Rocks: New Insights from Fundamental Studies into the Genesis, Melt Fertility, and Ore-forming Processes; (5) Earth Science Outreach"}
{"screen_id": "S13772", "doi": "10.1039/d1ra06347b", "title": "Fabrication of recyclable reduced graphene oxide/graphitic carbon nitride quantum dot aerogel hybrids with enhanced photocatalytic activity", "publication_date": "2021-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "RSC Advances", "language": "en", "abstract": "Recyclable photocatalysts that can efficiently respond to visible light must be developed for practical application."}
{"screen_id": "S00374", "doi": "10.2343/geochemj.2.0337", "title": "Fluid inclusions study and direct 40Ar/39Ar dating by in vacuo crushing of quartz veins within UHP metamorphic rocks from Yuka terrane, North Qaidam orogen, China", "publication_date": "2015-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "GEOCHEMICAL JOURNAL", "language": "en", "abstract": "Characterization and in vacuo crushing 40Ar/39Ar dating have been performed on four quartz veins within ultrahigh pressure (UHP) metamorphic rocks from the Yuka terrane, North Qaidam Orogen, western China. The data are used to decipher the nature, origin and age of the vein-forming fluids during the exhumation of UHP rocks. By using petrography and microthermometry analyses, three principal types of fluid inclusions have been identified: (1) hypersaline inclusions (type-a), (2) intermediate to high-salinity inclusions (type-b), and (3) low-salinity aqueous inclusions (type-c). The type-a and partly type-b inclusions occur as isolated, suggesting a primary origin. Most of the type-b inclusions occur as cluster in crystal micro-fracture, but never crosscut the crystal boundaries between individual quartz grains, indicating they are pseudo-secondary inclusions. The type-c inclusions commonly distributed in trails along the micro-fracture, suggesting a secondary origin. Quartz samples dated by 40Ar/39Ar in vacuo crushing method yield monotonic declining release patterns: anomalously old apparent ages are obtained at the first steps and relative flat age plateaus (429–411 Ma) over the final several steps. The gases liberated in the final steps are most derived from radiogenic and trapped argon in small primary fluid inclusions and pseudo-secondary fluid inclusions and also atmospheric argon from the crusher. Consequently, the plateau ages are concluded as the best estimate for the ages of quartz veining during the UHP rocks exhumation. Meanwhile, we ascribe the extremely high initial apparent ages to the most easily crushed and excess 40Ar (40ArE) dominated secondary fluid inclusions, because they generally distributed along crystal fractures. On the plots of 40Ar*/39ArK vs. 38ArCl/39ArK, the early data points yield well-defined isochrons and with two group ages: 392 Ma and ∼344 Ma, representing two episodes of post-collisional fluid flow activities. Microthermometry analyses and 40Ar/39Ar in vacuo crushing dating suggest that the secondary inclusions may be originated from the excess 40Ar rich post-hydrothermal fluid from the depth. In contrast, the primary inclusions have more complex origins, including meteoric waters transported by fault/shearing zones, retrograde decomposition of hydrous minerals and partial melt of HP/UHP rocks."}
{"screen_id": "S25718", "doi": "10.1002/ejic.202500082", "title": "Effect of Zirconium Substitution in Thiospinel Cobalt‐Ferrite Nanoparticles Decorated over Nitrogen‐Doped Graphene Oxide Sheet as an Oxygen Evolution Reaction Electrocatalysts", "publication_date": "2025-05-10", "type": "article", "venue": "European Journal of Inorganic Chemistry", "language": "en", "abstract": "The oxygen evolution reaction performance of spinel cobalt iron sulfide (CoFe2S4) is constrained by its inferior charge transfer capabilities compared to RuO2. Herein, partial substitution of zirconium (Zr4+) into the octahedral Fe site of CoFe2S4 is explored to enhance its electrocatalytic performance. The structural and electronic characterization reveals that Zr4+ incorporation induces lattice distortion and modulates the electronic environment, resulting in an enhanced charge distribution. Notably, the optimized Zr‐doped catalyst (Zr0.1CFS/N‐RGO) exhibits a significantly improved oxygen evolution reaction performance, achieving a low overpotential of 470 mV at 10 mA cm−2 and a small Tafel slope of 55 mV dec−1 in 1 M KOH. Furthermore, the catalyst demonstrates remarkable durability, retaining 91% of its initial current density after 12 h of continuous operation. These findings underscore the potential of strategic transition metal doping to optimize nonprecious metal‐based catalysts for sustainable electrochemical water splitting applications."}
{"screen_id": "S11643", "doi": "10.3390/nano11020405", "title": "Photostable and Uniform CH3NH3PbI3 Perovskite Film Prepared via Stoichiometric Modification and Solvent Engineering", "publication_date": "2021-02-05", "type": "article", "venue": "Nanomaterials", "language": "en", "abstract": "Solution-processed organometal halide perovskites (OMHPs) have been widely used in optoelectronic devices, and have exhibited brilliant performance. One of their generally recognized advantages is their easy fabrication procedure. However, such a procedure also brings uncertainty about the opto-electric properties of the final samples and devices, including morphology, stability, coverage ratio, and defect concentration. Normally, one needs to find a balanced condition, because there is a competitive relation between these parameters. In this work, we fabricated CH3NH3PbI3 films by carefully changing the ratio of the PbI2 to CH3NH3I, and found that the stoichiometric and solvent engineering not only determined the photoluminescence efficiency and defects in the materials, but also affected the photostability, morphology, and coverage ratio. Combining solvent engineering and the substitution of PbI2 by Pb(Ac)2, we obtained an optimized fabrication condition, providing uniform CH3NH3PbI3 films with both high photoluminescence efficiency and high photostability under either I-rich or Pb-rich conditions. These results provide an optimized fabrication procedure for CH3NH3PbI3 and other OMHP films, which is crucial for the performance of perovskite-based solar cells and light emitting devices."}
{"screen_id": "S26286", "doi": "10.1021/acsami.5c05243", "title": "Impact of Charge Transport Layers on the Structural and Optoelectronic Properties of Coevaporated Cu2AgBiI6", "publication_date": "2025-07-08", "type": "article", "venue": "ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces", "language": "en", "abstract": "High Resolution Image Download MS PowerPoint Slide The copper–silver–bismuth–iodide compound Cu 2 AgBiI 6 has emerged as a promising lead-free and environmentally friendly alternative to wide-bandgap lead-halide perovskites for applications in multijunction solar cells. Despite its promising optoelectronic properties, the efficiency of Cu 2 AgBiI 6 is still severely limited by poor charge collection. Here, we investigate the impact of commonly used charge transport layers (CTLs), including poly[bis(4-phenyl)(2,4,6-trimethylphenyl)amine] (PTAA), CuI, [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM), and SnO 2, on the structural and optoelectronic properties of coevaporated Cu 2 AgBiI 6 thin films. We reveal that while organic transport layers, such as PTAA and PCBM, form a relatively benign interface, inorganic transport layers, such as CuI and SnO 2, induce the formation of unintended impurity phases within the CuI–AgI–BiI 3 solid solution space, significantly influencing structural and optoelectronic properties. We demonstrate that identification of these impurity phases requires careful cross-validation combining absorption, X-ray diffraction and THz photoconductivity spectroscopy because their structural and optoelectronic properties are very similar to those of Cu 2 AgBiI 6 . Our findings highlight the critical role of CTLs in determining the structural and optoelectronic properties of coevaporated copper–silver–bismuth–iodide thin films and underscore the need for advanced interface engineering to optimize device efficiency and reproducibility."}
{"screen_id": "S19300", "doi": "10.48550/arxiv.2305.19553", "title": "Atomically smooth films of CsSb: a chemically robust visible light photocathode", "publication_date": "2023-05-31", "type": "preprint", "venue": "arXiv (Cornell University)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Alkali antimonide semiconductor photocathodes provide a promising platform for the generation of high brightness electron beams, which are necessary for the development of cutting-edge probes including x-ray free electron lasers and ultrafast electron diffraction. However, to harness the intrinsic brightness limits in these compounds, extrinsic degrading factors, including surface roughness and contamination, must be overcome. By exploring the growth of CsxSb thin films monitored by in situ electron diffraction, the conditions to reproducibly synthesize atomically smooth films of CsSb on 3C-SiC (100) and graphene coated TiO2 (110) substrates are identified, and detailed structural, morphological, and electronic characterization is presented. These films combine high quantum efficiency in the visible (up to 1.2% at 400 nm), an easily accessible photoemission threshold of 550 nm, low surface roughness (down to 600 pm on a 1 um scale), and a robustness against oxidation up to 15 times greater then Cs3Sb. These properties suggest that CsSb has the potential to operate as an alternative to Cs$_3$Sb in electron source applications where the demands of the vacuum environment might otherwise preclude the use of traditional alkali antimonides."}
{"screen_id": "S10952", "doi": "10.1021/acs.langmuir.0c02285", "title": "Pickering Emulsions of Fluorinated TiO2: A New Route for Intensification of Photocatalytic Degradation of Nitrobenzene", "publication_date": "2020-11-04", "type": "article", "venue": "Langmuir", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract Fluorination of the TiO2 surface has been often reported as a tool to increase the photocatalytic efficiency due to the beneficial effects in terms of production of oxidizing radicals. Moreover, it is shown that the unique amphiphilic properties of the fluorinated TiO2 (TiO2-F) surface allow one to use this material as a stabilizer for the formulation of Pickering emulsions of poorly soluble pollutants such as nitrobenzene (NB) in water. The emulsions have been characterized in terms of size of the droplets, type of emulsion, possibility of phase inversion, contact angle measurements, and optical microscopy. The emulsified system presents micrometer-sized droplets of pollutant surrounded by the TiO2-F photocatalyst. Consequently, the system can be considered to be composed of microreactors for the degradation of the pollutant, which maximize the contact area between the photocatalyst and substrate. The enhanced photocatalytic activity of TiO2-F was confirmed in the present paper as the apparent rate constants of NB photodegradation were 16 × 10–3 and 12 × 10–3 min–1 for fluorinated and bare TiO2, respectively. At NB concentrations largely exceeding its solubility, the rate constant was 0.04 × 10–3 min–1 in the presence of both TiO2 and TiO2-F. However, unlike TiO2, TiO2-F stabilized NB/water emulsions and, under these conditions, the efficiency of NB photocatalytic degradation in the emulsified system was ca. 18 times higher than in the nonemulsified one. This result is relevant also in terms of practical applications because it opens the route to one-pot treatments of biphasic polluted streams without the need of preliminary physical separation treatments."}
{"screen_id": "S12177", "doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2021.129704", "title": "Salt assisted fabrication of lignin-derived Fe, N, P, S codoped porous carbon as trifunctional catalyst for Zn-air batteries and water-splitting devices", "publication_date": "2021-04-19", "type": "article", "venue": "Chemical Engineering Journal", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S01212", "doi": "10.3390/en8010529", "title": "Theoretical Exploration of Various Lithium Peroxide Crystal Structures in a Li-Air Battery", "publication_date": "2015-01-14", "type": "article", "venue": "Energies", "language": "en", "abstract": "We describe a series of metastable Li2O2 crystal structures involving different orientations and displacements of the O22− peroxy ions based on the known Li2O2 crystal structure. Within the vicinity of the chemical potential ΔG ~ 0.20 eV/Li from the thermodynamic ground state of the Li2O2 crystal structure (i.e., Föppl structure), all of these newly found metastable Li2O2 crystal structures are found to be insulating and high-k materials, and they have a common unique signature of an O22− O-O vibration mode (ω ~ 799–865 cm−1), which is in the range of that commonly observed in Li-air battery experiments, regardless of the random O22− orientations and the symmetry in the crystal lattice. From XRD patterns analysis, the commercially available Li2O2 powder is confirmed to be the thermodynamic ground state Föppl-like structure. However, for Li2O2 compounds that are grown electrochemically under the environment of Li-O2 cells, we found that the XRD patterns alone are not sufficient for structural identification of these metastable Li2O2 crystalline phases due to the poor crystallinity of the sample. In addition, the commonly known Raman signal of O22− vibration mode is also found to be insufficient to validate the possible existence of these newly predicted Li2O2 crystal structures, as all of them similarly share the similar O22− vibration mode. However considering that the discharge voltage in most Li-O2 cells are typically several tenths of an eV below the thermodynamic equilibrium for the formation of ground state Föppl structure, the formation of these metastable Li2O2 crystal structures appears to be thermodynamically feasible."}
{"screen_id": "S06965", "doi": "10.1002/cssc.201802873", "title": "Iridium‐Based Catalysts for Solid Polymer Electrolyte Electrocatalytic Water Splitting", "publication_date": "2019-01-17", "type": "article", "venue": "ChemSusChem", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract Chemical energy conversion/storage through water splitting for hydrogen production has been recognized as the ideal solution to the transient nature of renewable energy sources. Solid polymer electrolyte (SPE) water electrolysis is one of the most practical ways to produce pure H 2 . Electrocatalysts are key materials in the SPE water electrolysis. At the anode side, electrode materials catalyzing the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) require specific properties. Among the reported materials, only iridium presents high activity and is more stable. In this Minireview, an application overview of single iridium metal and its oxide catalysts—binary, ternary, and multicomponent catalysts of iridium oxides and supported composite catalysts—for the OER in SPE water electrolysis is presented. Two main strategies to improve the activity of an electrocatalyst system, namely, increasing the number of active sites and the intrinsic activity of each active site, are reviewed with detailed examples. The challenges and perspectives in this field are also discussed."}
{"screen_id": "S13693", "doi": "10.5281/zenodo.4768557", "title": "Porphyrins and Phthalocyanines. Synthesis, properties and photocatalytic activity for wastewater treatment", "publication_date": "2021-06-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Zenodo (CERN European Organization for Nuclear Research)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Phthalocyanines are porphyrin-based dyes have plenty applications in different fields, including industrial, environmental (wastewater treatment), biomedical and chemical research. Phthalocyanine structure is able to chelate a lot of metals, which more often contribute to their huge variety of functions, including reactive oxygen species generation as photosensitizer, fluorescence and absorption spectra. All of these properties and also the synergism TiO2 – Phthalocyanine are very important to medical and environmental research, because oxygenated species generation (1O2, .-O2, .OR) is the main topic involved in their photocatalytic processes. The presentation of this review is very important for the development of research in photocatalysts in general."}
{"screen_id": "S00101", "doi": "10.26686/wgtn.17005588.v1", "title": "The Oruanui Eruption: Insights into the Generation and Dynamics of the World's Youngest Supereruption", "publication_date": "2013-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": null, "language": "en", "abstract": "This work investigates the pre- and syn-eruptive magmatic processes that culminated in the world’s youngest supereruption – the ~25.4 ka, 530 km³ Oruanui eruption from Taupo volcano, New Zealand – from the perspective of crystals contained in single parcels of frozen magma (pumice). The eruption is unusual in its variety of magmatic compositions. About 98-99 % by mass of the juvenile material is high-SiO₂ rhyolite (HSR; >74 wt% SiO₂), with lesser volumes of tholeiitic and calc-alkaline mafic magmas (total 3-5 km³; basaltic andesite to andesite: 53-63 % SiO₂), low-silica rhyolite (LSR: 0.1-0.5 km³; <74 wt% SiO₂) and a ‘foreign’ biotite-bearing rhyolite from an adjacent magma source (0.03 km³; ~74 wt% SiO₂). Detailed textural and chemical data from amphibole, plagioclase, and orthopyroxene are placed within the context of an established time-stratigraphic, volcanological and petrographic framework, of unrivalled detail globally for an eruption of this age and magnitude. Other previously published information from zircon and quartz is also incorporated. This unique contextual information is used to constrain observations and inferences regarding the processes that moved the Oruanui magma from a largely uneruptible crystal-rich progenitor at depth (where an eruption was possible), to a highly eruptible melt-rich magma at shallow crustal levels (where eruption was inevitable). A thermally and compositionally stratified crystal mush body, with an upper SiO₂-saturated and quartz bearing cap at ~3.5 km depth and quartz-free roots extended down to at least ~10 km. This inference is made on three bases. 1) That the quartz cores contain trapped melt that is more evolved than the melt component of the immediately pre-eruptive magma body, indicating their growth within mush from a more evolved interstitial melt. 2) The majority of plagioclase, amphibole, and orthopyroxene cores, in contrast to quartz have compositions that indicate growth from less evolved melts than that encountered in the final melt-dominant magma body. 3) Barometric estimates from amphibole core compositions indicate derivation from a range of depths (~3.5 to 10 km). The spatial and temporal transitions from mush to melt-dominant magma body are recorded in the textural and compositional zonations within the crystal phases. Crystals from all levels of the zoned mush body were entrained during the melt extraction process resulting in a diversity of crystal compositions being brought together in the melt-dominant magma body. Textural disequilibrium features in the cores of orthopyroxene and plagioclase crystals reflect their temporary departure from stability during the accompanying significant decompression (recorded in the amphibole model pressures). Counterpart chemical signatures, reflecting this partial orthopyroxene and plagioclase dissolution, are recorded in the amphiboles which show no textural evidence for destabilisation during ascent. Crystal chemical and textural zonation in the rim growths of the plagioclase, orthopyroxene, and amphibole record further crystallisation in the accumulating melt-dominant magma body, and reflect cooling and compositional evolution of the body towards its final pre-eruptive conditions. The timing of growth of the melt dominant magma body is constrained by Fe-Mg diffusion modelling of key boundaries in orthopyroxene crystals. Accumulation of this body began only ~1600 years and peaked at 230 years prior to the eruption, as vast volumes of melt and entrained crystals were drained from the mush body and began to accumulate at shallower levels (~3.5 to 6.0 km depth). Within the thin, sill-like melt-dominant magma body, significant heat loss drove vigorous convection. Textural and chemical zonation patterns within the rim-zones of plagioclase, orthopyroxene and amphibole, inferred to have grown solely in the melt-dominant magma body, depict a secular cooling and melt evolution trends towards final uniform thermal (~770 °C) and composit"}
{"screen_id": "S10600", "doi": "10.1039/d0dt02671a", "title": "Enhanced oxygen and hydrogen evolution performance by carbon-coated CoS 2 –FeS 2 nanosheets", "publication_date": "2020-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Dalton Transactions", "language": "en", "abstract": "It is vital to tailor the surface structure and composition of nanocatalysts, which greatly affect the catalytic activity through the exposure of specific atom coordination environment. To date, less progress has been made in tuning the interface structures of pyrite for promoting the catalytic activity towards overall water splitting. Herein, we developed a facile one-spot strategy to make carbon-layer-coated CoS2-FeS2 heterojunction nanosheets. The carbon layer and interface structures between Co-S and Fe-S were characterized via high resolution transmission electron microscopy. It exhibited a high OER activity with 1.47 V at 10 mA cm-2, which was superior to that of the commercial RuO2. Meanwhile, the carbon-layer-coated CoS2-FeS2 heterojunction nanosheets with the overpotential of 210 mV at 10 mA cm-2 was more active than FeS2 nanosheets with 240 mV in the hydrogen evolution reaction. Notably, it enhanced the catalytic activity towards the overall water splitting with the voltage of 1.66 V at 10 mA cm-2 using a two-electrode system. The remarkable long-term stability was verified by a slight change in the current density of 6 mA cm-2 for 26 h. The prominent catalytic activity could be related to the exposure of the carbon layer and interface structures. This work demonstrates that engineering the interface structure is essential for boosting the overall water splitting activity."}
