{"screen_id": "S11440", "doi": "10.1016/j.electacta.2020.137710", "title": "Directed assembly of ultrasmall nitrogen coordinated Ir nanoparticles for enhanced electrocatalysis", "publication_date": "2021-01-03", "type": "article", "venue": "Electrochimica Acta", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S19355", "doi": "10.2138/am-2022-8804", "title": "Equilibrium Sn isotope fractionation between aqueous Sn and Sn-bearing minerals: Constrained by first-principles calculations", "publication_date": "2023-06-07", "type": "article", "venue": "American Mineralogist", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract Equilibrium Sn isotope fractionation properties between aqueous Sn (2+, 4+) species and Sn-bearing minerals are the key to using tin isotopes to trace the transportation, enrichment, and precipitation of tin in various geological processes. However, the application of Sn isotope geochemistry has been impeded by the absence of equilibrium Sn isotopic fractionation factors between Sn-bearing minerals and fluid and between mineral pairs. In this contribution, we conducted first-principles calculations based on the density functional theory to obtain the equilibrium Sn isotopic fractionation factors between aqueous Sn complexes and minerals. For Sn-bearing complexes in solution, the reduced partition function ratios (β) are determined by taking snapshots from the molecular dynamics trajectories and computing the average β of the snapshots based on the lowest energy atomic coordinates. For Sn-bearing minerals, static first-principles periodic density functional theory methods are performed. The results show that the β factors decrease in the sequence of malayaite(s) (Sn4+) > cassiterite(s) (Sn4+) > Sn4+Cl4(H2O)2(aq) > Sn2+F3(aq)− > Sn2+(OH)2(aq) > Sn2+CO3(aq) > stannite(s) (Sn4+) > Sn2+Cl3(aq)−. The predicted Sn isotope fractionation follows several distinct patterns. (1) For minerals, the Sn isotope fractionations (1000lnαminerals-stannite) of cassiterite stannite and malayaite-stannite mineral pairs are controlled by the properties of elements coordinating with tin, and the equilibrium Sn isotope fractionation factors between mineral pairs are large enough to make them powerful Sn isotope thermometers. (2) For Sn-bearing aqueous species, the β values of tin (4+) complexes are remarkably larger than those of all aqueous Sn2+ species, indicating that higher valence tin is preferentially enriched heavy tin isotopes. For aqueous Sn2+ species, the aqueous species with shorter bonds are more-enriched in heavy Sn isotopes than those with longer bonds. When both the valence state and bond length are different, the valence state is the main factor controlling tin isotope fractionation. (3) During the precipitation of various Sn2+ aqueous complexes into cassiterite or malayaite, heavy Sn isotopes tend to be enriched in minerals, while there are two situations for the precipitation of Sn2+ complexes into stannite. When Sn is transported in hydrothermal solution as Sn2+Cl3−, stannite precipitation leads to the enrichment of light tin isotopes in the residual solution and late minerals. On the contrary, other Sn2+ species [Sn2+F3−, Sn2+(OH)2 and Sn2+CO3] that precipitate as stannite will result in the enrichment of heavy tin isotopes in the residual solutions. In addition, the direct precipitation of Sn4+ complexes into cassiterite, malayaite, or stannite also produces considerable tin isotope fractionation. During precipitation, Sn4+ aqueous complexes form cassiterite or malayaite, and heavy Sn isotopes tend to be enriched in minerals; whereas when aqueous Sn4+ species are precipitated into stannite, heavy Sn isotopes are enriched in the residual fluid and late minerals. The calculated results are essential for further understanding the mechanisms of Sn isotopic fractionation in various Sn-involved geological processes."}
{"screen_id": "S26681", "doi": "10.1021/acs.jpcc.5c04364", "title": "Polymorph-Induced Reducibility and Electron Trapping Energetics of Nb and W Dopants in TiO 2", "publication_date": "2025-08-19", "type": "article", "venue": "The Journal of Physical Chemistry C", "language": "en", "abstract": "High Resolution Image Download MS PowerPoint Slide Controlling the formation of electron polarons in TiO 2 doped with transition metals is important for the design of transparent conducting oxides for high-efficiency photovoltaics and photocatalysts with tunable reaction selectivities. In this work, EPR spectroscopy is combined with Hubbard-corrected density functional theory (DFT+ U ), with refined atomic-like Hubbard projectors, to show the sensitivity of charge compensation in substitutionally doped Nb-TiO 2 and W-TiO 2 with respect to the TiO 2 polymorph ( i.e., anatase or rutile). Both EPR magnetic tensors and DFT+ U- predicted Nb 4 d and W 5 d orbital occupancies show the formation of differing dopant charge states depending on the TiO 2 polymorph, with nonmagnetic Nb 5+ and W 6+ in doped anatase and paramagnetic Nb 4+ and W 5+ in doped rutile. The results provide an example of how a coherent experimental and theory-validated framework can be used to understand and predict the reducibility of dopants and electron trapping energetics in TiO 2 polymorphs. The outcome enables greater control over the electronic and magnetic properties of metal oxide semiconductors, which are crucial for the rational design of next-generation materials for energy conversion and catalytic applications."}
{"screen_id": "S00557", "doi": "10.1063/1.4931161", "title": "Single-step preparation and consolidation of reduced early-transition-metal oxide/metal n-type thermoelectric composites", "publication_date": "2015-09-01", "type": "article", "venue": "AIP Advances", "language": "en", "abstract": "Reduced early transition metal oxides/metal composites have been identified here as interesting thermoelectric materials. Numerous compositions in the Nb-rich portion of the WO3–Nb2O5 system have been studied, in composite formulations with elemental W. Spark plasma sintering (SPS) has been employed to achieve rapid preparation and consolidation of composite materials containing W metal precipitates with characteristic length scales that range from under 20 nm to a few microns, that exhibit thermal conductivities that are constant from 300 K to 1000 K, approximately 2.5 W m−1 K−1. Thermoelectric properties of these n-type materials were measured, and the highest-performing compositions were found to reach figure of merit zT values close to 0.1 at 950 K. The measurements point to higher zT values at yet-higher temperatures."}
{"screen_id": "S00162", "doi": "10.1155/2015/469121", "title": "Titanium Carbide Nanocrystals Synthesized from a Metatitanic Acid‐Sucrose Precursor via a Carbothermal Reduction", "publication_date": "2015-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Nanomaterials", "language": "en", "abstract": "A TiC powder is synthesized from a micron‐sized mesoporous metatitanic acid‐sucrose precursor (precursor M) by a carbothermal reduction process. Control specimens are also prepared using a nanosized TiO2‐sucrose precursor (precursor T) with a higher cost. When synthesized at 1500°C for 2 h in flowing Ar, the characteristics of the synthesized TiC from precursor M are similar to those of the counterpart from precursor T in terms of the crystal size (58.5 versus 57.4 nm), oxygen content (0.22 wt% versus 0.25 wt%), and representative sizes of mesopores: approximately 2.5 and 19.7–25.0 nm in both specimens. The most salient differences of the two specimens are found in the TiC from precursor M demonstrating (i) a higher crystallinity based on the distinctive doublet peaks in the high‐two‐theta XRD regime and (ii) a lower specific surface area (79.4 versus 94.8 m2/g) with a smaller specific pore volume (0.1 versus 0.2 cm3/g) than the counterpart from precursor T."}
{"screen_id": "S13675", "doi": "10.1002/er.7380", "title": "Recent developments on transition metal–based electrocatalysts for application in anion exchange membrane water electrolysis", "publication_date": "2021-10-21", "type": "article", "venue": "International Journal of Energy Research", "language": "en", "abstract": "Anion exchange membrane water electrolyzer (AEMWE) is a promising technology in water electrolysis for the production of green hydrogen. Unlike conventional alkaline water electrolyzers (AWE), AEMWEs utilize mild alkaline conditions and anion exchange membranes as separators and ionic conductors, respectively. However, the largest merit of AEMWE is the utilization of low-cost transition metals as electrocatalysts for hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER). Achieving excellent AEMWE performance using highly active and robust transition metal electrocatalysts is desired for lowering the fabrication cost and realizing the successful commercialization of AEMWE. Water splitting efficiency in the AEMWE largely depends on the kinetics of the HER and OER catalysts. Such a condition requires proper understanding of the reaction mechanisms, careful design and optimization of catalyst materials, and maintenance of catalyst durability under AEMWE conditions during long-term operation. This review discussed recent transition metal HER, OER, and bifunctional water splitting electrocatalysts applied within the actual AEMWE membrane electrode assembly (MEA), where their influence toward the electrolyzer cell performance is highlighted. Additionally, the MEA fabrication methods are briefly addressed. From the review, potential electrocatalyst materials and remaining challenges are identified to provide for future improvements on the AEMWE system."}
{"screen_id": "S11132", "doi": "10.25675/3.018703", "title": "Combining chemical with biological oxidation for efficient treatment of chloronitrobenzene in groundwater", "publication_date": "2019-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Digital Collections of Colorado (Colorado State University)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Chloronitrobenzene (CNB) is a chloronitroaromatic compound widely used in the synthetic production of pharmaceuticals, pesticides, dyes, lumber preservatives, and many other industrial products. CNB has been recognized as a toxic organic contaminant to humans and is recalcitrant to microbial biodegradation in anoxic environments. When receptors are threatened by CNB-contaminated groundwater, regulators may demand immediate remedial approaches, such as advanced oxidation processes (AOPs). While AOPs are effective for the removal of many organic contaminants from water, these techniques are often costly, especially when complete mineralization is the goal. In this study, it was hypothesized that chemical oxidation for the primary purpose of ring cleavage followed by biological oxidation of the generated intermediates is more cost-effective than relying on AOPs only for complete mineralization. Electrochemical oxidation via hydroxyl radicals was chosen as model AOP and performed at various applied potentials and for different treatment durations. Liquid chromatography coupled with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (LC/QToF-MS) revealed that the aromatic ring in CNB is rapidly hydroxylated and cleaved to form dicarboxylic products including muconic acid, succinic acid, malic acid, and maleic acid. Further electrochemical oxidation of these dicarboxylates was slower by about two orders of magnitude. To evaluate the universal biodegradability of the generated intermediates, the electrochemically oxidized samples of CNB were then exposed to a microbial culture enriched from a rhizosphere soil. Results showed that the dicarboxylic ring opening products biodegraded under anoxic conditions within 7 days while aromatic species including CNB, chloronitrophenol, chlorohydroquinone and dihydroxybenzoquinone persisted over 28 days of biological treatment. A comprehensive cost analysis considering both capital costs (electrodes) and operational costs (electric energy) revealed that the most efficient treatment strategy is to apply electrochemical oxidation at a low applied potential around 6 V until complete cleavage of the aromatic ring is achieved. Beyond that, advanced oxidation of the readily biodegradable ring cleavage products becomes uneconomical. Consequently, the coupling of chemical oxidation for persistent parent compounds with biodegradation of transformation intermediates is an efficient approach for the treatment of groundwater contaminated with CNB and likely other aromatic contaminants."}
{"screen_id": "S18795", "doi": "10.15407/nnn.20.04.907", "title": "Study of Zinc Oxide Varistors by Incorporating Alkaline-Earth and Rare-Earth Metal Nanofillers", "publication_date": "2022-12-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Nanosistemi Nanomateriali Nanotehnologii", "language": "en", "abstract": "This paper investigates recent developments in the field of zinc oxide varistors' development using nanocomposite materials.In addition, the materials under discussion have attracted academic and industrial interests due to their dramatic improvement in characteristics at nanofiller contents.Moreover, the varieties and forms of zinc oxide varistors, as well as the structure and properties of zinc oxide varistors, are discussed in this article.Zinc oxide varistors have traditionally been filled with synthetic or natural inorganic compounds to improve their properties or simply to save cost.In addition, this paper investigates the performance evaluation of zinc oxide varistors by incorporating alkaline-earth and rare-earth metal nanofillers.These applications require multifunctionality in a single material, which is rare in zinc oxide varistors.Zinc oxide varistors incorporating with other materials is a cost-effective technique to create multifunctional materials.The property improvement in nanocomposite systems, where the fillers typically have nanometre-scale dimensions, probably occurs with a tradeoff.У даній роботі досліджуються останні результати в області розробки варисторів оксиду Цинку з використанням нанокомпозитних матеріялів.Крім того, обговорювані матеріяли привернули академічні та промислові інтереси завдяки різкому поліпшенню їхніх характеристик із вмістом нанонаповнювачів.Крім того, різновиди та форми варисторів оксиду Цинку, а також будова та властивості варисторів оксиду Цинку розглянуто в даній статті.Варистори оксиду Цинку традиційно запов-Наносистеми, наноматеріали, нанотехнології Nanosistemi, Nanomateriali, Nanotehnologii 2022, т. 20, № 4, сс.907-928  2022 ІÌÔ (Іíñòèòóò ìåòàëîôіçèêè іì.Ã. Â. Êóðäþìîâà ÍÀÍ Óêðàїíи) Надруковано в Україні.908"}
{"screen_id": "S15509", "doi": "10.1149/ma2019-01/29/1463", "title": "Two-Dimensional Nanoframes for High Activity Bifunctional Acidic Oxygen Reduction and Evolution Electrocatalysts", "publication_date": "2019-05-01", "type": "conference-abstract", "venue": "ECS Meeting Abstracts", "language": "en", "abstract": "Bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts that facilitate the acidic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) and oxygen evolution reaction (OER) at the same electrode are critical components of unitized regenerative fuel cells (URFCs) and metal-air batteries. Obtaining bifunctional oxygen catalysts that simultaneously provide high ORR and OER activity, high stability, and lower precious metal content remains a significant challenge. Our recent work has explored bimetallic two-dimensional (2D) nanoframes as an approach to obtain carbon-free, unsupported nanostructures and demonstrated nickel-platinum and nickel-iridium 2D nanoframes function as high activity, separate ORR and OER catalysts respectively.1,2 To obtain high activity bifunctional oxygen catalysts, we investigated the combination of NiPt and CoIr 2D nanoframes. Bimetallic 2D nanoframes were prepared by microwave-assisted synthesis of noble metal-decorated transition metal hydroxide nanosheets followed by thermal reduction and chemical leaching steps. The 2D nanoframes utilize noble metal (Pt,Ir)-transition metal (Ni, Co) interactions to alter surface electronic structure, and the unsupported nanostructure provides a carbon-free matrix with three-dimensional accessibility to the catalytically active sites. Electrochemical testing using a rotating disk electrode configuration showed the two-component 2D nanoframe bifunctional oxygen electrocatalysts have higher ORR mass activity, OER mass activity, and round-trip efficiency compared with baseline Pt-IrO2 catalysts. Accelerated durability testing consisting of repeated voltage cycles over ORR/OER potential ranges showed that the 2D nanoframe catalysts exhibit similar ORR stability and improved OER stability compared with Pt-IrO2. The ability to combine highly catalytically active surfaces within a carbon-free 3D nanoarchitecture provides the opportunity to design bifunctional catalysts with improved activity and stability. References Godinez-Salomon, F.; Mendoza-Cruz, R.; Arellano-Jimenez, M. J.; Jose-Yacaman, M.; Rhodes, C. P., Metallic Two-Dimensional Nanoframes: Unsupported Hierarchical Nickel-Platinum Alloy Nanoarchitectures with Enhanced Electrochemical Oxygen Reduction Activity and Stability. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 2017, 9, 18660-18674. DOI: 10.1021/acsami.7b00043 Godínez-Salomón, F.; Albiter, L.; Alia, S. M.; Pivovar, B. S.; Camacho-Forero, L. E.; Balbuena, P. B.; Mendoza-Cruz, R.; Arellano-Jimenez, M. J.; Rhodes, C. P., Self-Supported Hydrous Iridium–Nickel Oxide Two-Dimensional Nanoframes for High Activity Oxygen Evolution Electrocatalysts. ACS Catal. 2018, 8, 10498-10520. DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.8b02171"}
{"screen_id": "S12361", "doi": "10.3390/ijerph18094670", "title": "Surface Treatment of the Dental Implant with Hyaluronic Acid: An Overview of Recent Data", "publication_date": "2021-04-27", "type": "article", "venue": "International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health", "language": "en", "abstract": "Recently, interest has grown by focusing on the evaluation of a molecule already produced in the human body such as hyaluronic acid (HA), as an application to the surface of the titanium implant. Its osteo-conductive characteristics and positive interaction with the progenitor cells responsible for bone formation, consequently, make it responsible for secondary stability. The aim of this work was to analyze the various surface treatments in titanium implants, demonstrating that the topography and surface chemistry of biomaterials can correlate with the host response; also focusing on the addition of HA to the implant surface and assessing the biological implications during early stages of recovery. Used as a coating, HA acts on the migration, adhesion, proliferation and differentiation of cell precursors on titanium implants by improving the connection between implant and bone. Furthermore, the improvement of the bioactivity of the implant surfaces through HA could therefore facilitate the positioning of the dental prosthesis precisely in the early loading phase, thus satisfying the patients' requests. It is important to note that all the findings should be supported by further experimental studies in animals as well as humans to evaluate and confirm the use of HA in any field of dentistry."}
{"screen_id": "S28707", "doi": "10.1021/acscatal.5c08945", "title": "Challenges and Opportunities of Pretrained Machine Learning Interatomic Potentials in Heterogeneous Catalysis", "publication_date": "2026-02-18", "type": "article", "venue": "ACS Catalysis", "language": "en", "abstract": "The design of catalysts gets its fundamental rationale from accurate and efficient modeling of reactivity on surfaces and materials. To reach this detailed atomistic understanding, density functional theory (DFT) has been the key computational technique. However, the emergence of machine learning interatomic potentials (MLIPs) marks a significant paradigm shift, offering the potential to match DFT accuracy at a drastically reduced computational cost. This perspective provides an overview of state-of-the-art MLIPs for heterogeneous catalysis as \"out-of-the-box\" tools. We summarize the different families of MLIPs and their training processes and then apply these pretrained models to heterogeneous catalysis problems. Furthermore, we critically address the challenges of model transferability and integration in unified frameworks, underscoring the necessity for standardized protocols to benchmark performance across different architectures. Finally, we assess the capacity of pretrained models to democratize computational catalysis, highlighting the specific hurdles that remain in achieving reliable, predictive power for widespread use."}
{"screen_id": "S07505", "doi": "10.1038/s41524-019-0181-4", "title": "Genetic algorithms for computational materials discovery accelerated by machine learning", "publication_date": "2019-04-10", "type": "article", "venue": "npj Computational Materials", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract Materials discovery is increasingly being impelled by machine learning methods that rely on pre-existing datasets. Where datasets are lacking, unbiased data generation can be achieved with genetic algorithms. Here a machine learning model is trained on-the-fly as a computationally inexpensive energy predictor before analyzing how to augment convergence in genetic algorithm-based approaches by using the model as a surrogate. This leads to a machine learning accelerated genetic algorithm combining robust qualities of the genetic algorithm with rapid machine learning. The approach is used to search for stable, compositionally variant, geometrically similar nanoparticle alloys to illustrate its capability for accelerated materials discovery, e.g., nanoalloy catalysts. The machine learning accelerated approach, in this case, yields a 50-fold reduction in the number of required energy calculations compared to a traditional “brute force” genetic algorithm. This makes searching through the space of all homotops and compositions of a binary alloy particle in a given structure feasible, using density functional theory calculations."}
{"screen_id": "S04391", "doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2017.05.111", "title": "Highly synergistic antimicrobial activity of spherical and flower-like hierarchical titanium dioxide/silver composites", "publication_date": "2017-05-31", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Colloid and Interface Science", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S09125", "doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2020.145484", "title": "Well-aligned arrangement CoFe nanoparticles assisted with cellulose nanofibrils for efficient oxygen evolution reaction", "publication_date": "2020-01-22", "type": "article", "venue": "Applied Surface Science", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S19612", "doi": "10.1007/s13204-023-02909-z", "title": "Synthesis of active binary and ternary TiO2-based nanocomposites for efficient dye photodegradation", "publication_date": "2023-06-29", "type": "article", "venue": "Applied Nanoscience", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
