{"screen_id": "S09482", "doi": "10.1016/j.jcrysgro.2020.125620", "title": "Epitaxial growth of full range of compositions of (1 1 1) PbZr1-Ti O3 on GaN", "publication_date": "2020-03-21", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Crystal Growth", "language": "en", "abstract": "Integrating functional complex oxides with conventional (“non-oxide”) semiconductors emerges to be an important research field and has been attracting great interest. Because of their superior intrinsic material properties, such as a relatively high dielectric constant and polarization, the utilization of PbZr1-xTixO3 (PZT) materials as a dielectric layer is expected to greatly improve the performance of the GaN high electron mobility transistor. The functional PbZr1-xTixO3 exhibits quite different crystal structures and consequently physical properties depending on the composition. In this work we report the growth of full range of compositions of PZT films on MgO buffered GaN substrates. Besides revealing the temperature effect on phase formation and surface morphology, we demonstrated the strong effect of composition on the growth: pure (1 1 1) phase is formed in Ti-rich PZT (x > 0.48) while pyrochlore impurity phase is found in Zr-rich PZT (x < 0.48). By introducing an ultrathin Ti-rich PZT seed layer, we are able to achieve epitaxial growth of Zr-rich PZT. The epitaxial PZT films of different composition all exhibit good ferroelectric properties, showing great promise for future GaN device applications."}
{"screen_id": "S22884", "doi": "10.1007/s00410-024-02149-6", "title": "Effectiveness of Ti-in-amphibole thermometry and performance of different thermometers across lower continental crust up to UHT metamorphism", "publication_date": "2024-06-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Contributions to Mineralogy and Petrology", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract Metabasites are important constituents of deep crustal sections and are the favored rock type for studying lower crustal amphibolite to granulite transitions. However, metapelites may develop a larger number of temperature-sensitive mineral assemblages and are particular useful when extreme ultrahigh temperature (UHT) conditions are envisaged. A recent calibration of the Ti-in-amphibole thermometer by Liao et al. (2021) was supposed to make thermometry on metabasites quick and easy to apply. However, their calibration is based on experiments which were not originally designed to investigate in detail the temperature dependence of Ti in amphibole. In addition, a possible effect of a TiO2 and/or pressure on the Ti content of amphibole was not fully taken into account. This resulted in a calibration uncertainty of ± 70 °C (2σ), much higher than that of other single-mineral thermometers. In this study we firstly test the newly calibrated Ti-in-amphibole thermometer across the mid to lower crustal section of the Ivrea–Verbano Zone (IVZ; NW Italy) and compare the performance of different thermometric techniques across the sequence. Ti-in-amphibole thermometry records increasing peak temperatures from amphibolite (600–700 °C), transition (750–800 °C) and granulite (850–950 °C) zones. Titanium content of amphibole may be modified by retrograde fluid influx returning temperatures c. 200–300 °C lower than in non-altered domains. The comparison reveals that Zr-in-rutile thermometer in pelitic granulites seems to be more prone to post-peak resetting than the Ti-in-amphibole thermometry in nearby mafic rocks. This behavior is also confirmed by amphibole analyses from other UHT localities, where the performance of Ti-in-amphibole thermometry is comparable with that of Al-in-orthopyroxene in pelitic granulites. However, Ti-in-amphibole temperatures are underestimated in rutile-bearing samples and this limitation is not solely restricted to rocks containing high H 2 O contents as previously thought. Derived constraints on the diffusivity of Ti through amphibole demonstrate the robustness of the Ti-in-amphibole thermometer to later thermal disturbances. However, ad-hoc experiments are still necessary to improve the accuracy and precision of calibration and to extend its applicability. This advance will make mafic granulites routine targets for studies devoted to understanding the regional extent of UHT metamorphism."}
{"screen_id": "S22183", "doi": "10.59429/ace.v7i2.1871", "title": "Development of metal free biochar based material for water electrolysis hydrogen production using anion exchange membrane: Creating circular economy", "publication_date": "2024-03-14", "type": "article", "venue": "Applied Chemical Engineering", "language": "en", "abstract": "In recent days, a steady growth is being noted in hydrogen energy field owing to the global rise in population and increased energy demand. Fast depletion of fossil-based fuels and climate change issues are driving nations towards exploring an alternate energy resource. Hydrogen energy is one such an option owing to availability of simple and cost intensive technology involvement. Alkaline water electrolysis is one of the simplest ways of producing hydrogen utilizing renewable energy and oxygen as the only byproduct thus not contributing to carbon footprint. However, immediate attention is needed to minimize the cost of electrolyzer components, maintenance and energy. Commercial proton exchange membrane water electrolyzers (PEM) in market employ large capital cost due to high-priced Nafion and other PFSA membranes, titanium endplates and noble metal-based electrocatalysts. As a consequence, researchers are looking into the usage of Anionic exchange membrane (AEM) for water/alkali based electrolyzer for producing hydrogen with non-noble metal electrocatalysts and low-cost metal end plates. In this article a waste coconut shell derived biochar is explored as the carbon matrix for base of electrocatalysts to replace other high-cost carbon support for electrocatalyst in water electrolyzer. The structural and electrical properties of the coconut shell biochar are studied and compared with other available carbon supports. To deep drive in the electrolyzer performance this approach is further extended to MEA (Membrane Electrode Assembly) level to study the metal free electrocatalyst behavior in real-time environmental conditions."}
{"screen_id": "S28598", "doi": "10.70401/smd.2026.0025", "title": "Spinel oxide crystallography governing lattice-coupled water-redox electrocatalysis", "publication_date": "2026-02-09", "type": "article", "venue": "Smart Materials and Devices", "language": null, "abstract": "Electrocatalytic water splitting is a key technology for sustainable hydrogen production, but its efficiency is limited by the slow kinetics of the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and the hydrogen evolution reaction (HER). Spinel oxides (AB2O4) have drawn significant interest due to their electrochemical stability, tunable electronic properties, and low cost. Their catalytic performance is highly influenced by the crystalline phase, which governs charge transport, active site density, and reaction energetics. However, the effects of phase transitions and structural variations on electrocatalysis remain insufficiently explored. This review systematically evaluates the performance of spinel oxides across six primary crystal phases: cubic, hexagonal, tetragonal, orthorhombic, rhombohedral, and monoclinic, discussing how these structural features affect charge transport, intermediate adsorption, and reaction energetics. The review emphasizes the structure-electronic-catalytic performance relationships and covers phase variants, including coordination environment modulation, defect regulation, metastable phase transitions, and strain engineering. It further examines how phase symmetry, oxygen coordination, orbital rearrangement, and interfacial characteristics influence OER and HER kinetics. Challenges in phase engineering, such as controlling phase transitions and stabilizing metastable phases, are also highlighted. This review provides a framework for understanding the electrocatalytic behavior of spinel oxides and offers guidance for designing high-performance catalysts for water splitting."}
{"screen_id": "S10182", "doi": "10.14711/thesis-991012555556703412", "title": "First-principles modeling of non-aqueous lithium-oxygen batteries", "publication_date": "2017-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": null, "language": "en", "abstract": "Non-aqueous lithium-oxygen batteries are promising energy storage devices as they can offer ultrahigh specific capacities and energy densities. However, issues, such as high charge overpotential, sluggish reaction kinetics, and dendrite growth, have hindered the commercialization of the technology. The primary objective of this thesis aims to use first-principles modeling techniques to unravel the underlying reaction mechanisms of non-aqueous lithium-oxygen batteries, and to provide solutions to address the critical issues. In the aspect of the cathode side of non-aqueous lithium-oxygen batteries, we calculate the bulk thermodynamic properties and surface energies of the insulated main discharge product Li2O2 and the conductive possible byproduct Li3O4. Results show that the standard formation Gibbs free energy of bulk Li3O4 is marginally higher than that of Li2O2, but the surface energy of Li3O4 is much lower. Low surface energy results in both lowered nucleation energy and formation Gibbs free energy in the nanometer regime, allowing the Li3O4 nano particles to nucleate ahead of Li2O2 during the discharge process and to exist stably when particle sizes are smaller than about 40 nm. The decomposition of Li3O4 during the charge process can lead to a lower voltage plateau. To further reduce the charge overpotential and enhance the reaction kinetics on the cathode side, we study the catalytic mechanism of a representative catalyst rutile RuO2. For the oxygen reduction reaction (ORR), it is found that rutile RuO2 can provide large adsorption energies toward LiO2 and Li2O2, thus resulting in high initial discharge voltages. For the oxygen evolution reaction (OER), we propose that the OER may also occur at the two-phase interface of Li2O2/RuO2 in addition to the three-phase interface, where rutile RuO2 provides pathways for the lithium ions while oxygen evolves from the exposed surfaces of Li2O2. Calculation results show that our proposed catalytic scenario is both thermodynamically and kinetically viable. In addition to rutile RuO2, we also study the catalytic activity of RuO2’s polymorph, RuO2 monolayer. Computational results show that the RuO2 monolayer exhibits a higher catalytic activity than the rutile RuO2 does, making it a promising catalytic material for non-aqueous lithium-oxygen batteries. To address the dendrite growth problem on the anode side, two strategies are explored. One is to develop new lithium ion intercalation anode materials with high capacity. Based on DFT calculations, we propose that when using graphene as a substrate as well as a protective layer of silicene, the van der Waals heterostructure of silicene and graphene (Si/G) can serve as a prospective anode material for lithium and sodium batteries. The other strategy is to add artificial interlayer between the lithium metal anode and liquid electrolyte. With the aid of first-principles calculations, we found that the two-dimensional (2D) crystal, h-BN, is a good candidate for the artificial interlayer which can mitigate dendrite growth, prevent the decomposition of liquid electrolyte and ensure sufficient lithium ion conductivity. Keywords: First-principles modeling; Non-aqueous lithium-oxygen batteries; Li3O4; Rutile RuO2; RuO2 monolayer; Silicene; Lithium metal anode; h-BN; 2D crystals; Proton exchange membrane"}
{"screen_id": "S16795", "doi": "10.3390/ijms231810712", "title": "Machine Learning for Property Prediction and Optimization of Polymeric Nanocomposites: A State-of-the-Art", "publication_date": "2022-09-14", "type": "article", "venue": "International Journal of Molecular Sciences", "language": "en", "abstract": "Recently, the field of polymer nanocomposites has been an area of high scientific and industrial attention due to noteworthy improvements attained in these materials, arising from the synergetic combination of properties of a polymeric matrix and an organic or inorganic nanomaterial. The enhanced performance of those materials typically involves superior mechanical strength, toughness and stiffness, electrical and thermal conductivity, better flame retardancy and a higher barrier to moisture and gases. Nanocomposites can also display unique design possibilities, which provide exceptional advantages in developing multifunctional materials with desired properties for specific applications. On the other hand, machine learning (ML) has been recognized as a powerful predictive tool for data-driven multi-physical modelling, leading to unprecedented insights and an exploration of the system's properties beyond the capability of traditional computational and experimental analyses. This article aims to provide a brief overview of the most important findings related to the application of ML for the rational design of polymeric nanocomposites. Prediction, optimization, feature identification and uncertainty quantification are presented along with different ML algorithms used in the field of polymeric nanocomposites for property prediction, and selected examples are discussed. Finally, conclusions and future perspectives are highlighted."}
{"screen_id": "S03815", "doi": "10.1016/j.jpowsour.2017.01.021", "title": "A cost-effective nanoporous ultrathin film electrode based on nanoporous gold/IrO2 composite for proton exchange membrane water electrolysis", "publication_date": "2017-01-11", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Power Sources", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S14562", "doi": "10.3390/books978-3-03842-559-5", "title": "Plasma Nanoengineering and Nanofabrication", "publication_date": "2017-11-27", "type": "book", "venue": null, "language": "en", "abstract": "He is one of the pioneers of the field of nanoengineered plasma polymer films and has developed innovative technologies such as antibacterial coatings, drug delivery platforms, cell guidance surfaces and diagnostic devices.He was awarded research funding in excess of 15 million dollars.He has published more than 160 research papers, reviews and book chapters.He is the inventor of five patents which underpin technologies currently under translation to commercialization."}
{"screen_id": "S06023", "doi": "10.1038/s41598-018-22965-8", "title": "Effects of high pressure on the electrical resistivity and dielectric properties of nanocrystalline SnO 2", "publication_date": "2018-03-23", "type": "article", "venue": "Scientific Reports", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract The electrical transport and structural properties of tin oxide nanoparticles under compression have been studied by in situ impedance measurements and synchrotron X-ray diffraction (XRD) up to 27.9 GPa. It was found that the conduction of SnO2 can be improved significantly with compression. Abnormal variations in resistivity, relaxation frequency, and relative permittivity were observed at approximately 12.3 and 25.0 GPa, which can be attributed to pressure-induced tetragonal- orthorhombic-cubic structural transitions. The dielectric properties of the SnO2 nanoparticles were found to be a function of pressure, and the dielectric response was dependent on frequency and pressure. The dielectric constant and loss tangent decreased with increasing frequency. Relaxation-type dielectric behaviour dominated at low frequencies. Whereas, modulus spectra indicated that charge carrier short-range motion dominated at high frequencies."}
{"screen_id": "S17753", "doi": "10.1021/acsaem.2c03466", "title": "Intrinsic Defects and Their Role in the Phase Transition of Na-Ion Anode Na2Ti3O7", "publication_date": "2022-12-16", "type": "article", "venue": "ACS Applied Energy Materials", "language": "en", "abstract": "High Resolution Image Download MS PowerPoint Slide The development of high-power anode materials for Na-ion batteries is one of the primary obstacles due to the growing demands for their use in the smart grid. Despite the appealingly low cost and non-toxicity, Na 2 Ti 3 O 7 suffers from low electrical conductivity and poor structural stability, which restricts its use in high-power applications. Viable approaches for overcoming these drawbacks reported to date are aliovalent doping and hydrogenation/hydrothermal treatments, both of which are closely intertwined with native defects. There is still a lack of knowledge, however, of the intrinsic defect chemistry of Na 2 Ti 3 O 7, which impairs the rational design of high-power titanate anodes. Here, we report hybrid density functional theory calculations of the native defect chemistry of Na 2 Ti 3 O 7 . The defect calculations show that the insulating properties of Na 2 Ti 3 O 7 arise from the Na and O Schottky disorder that act as major charge compensators. Under high-temperature hydrogenation treatment, these Schottky pairs of Na and O vacancies become dominant defects in Na 2 Ti 3 O 7, triggering the spontaneous partial phase transition to Na 2 Ti 6 O 13 and improving the electrical conductivity of the composite anode. Our findings provide an explanation on the interplay between intrinsic defects, structural phase transitions, and electrical conductivity, which can aid understanding of the properties of composite materials obtained from phase transitions."}
{"screen_id": "S07700", "doi": "10.2320/matertrans.mf201916", "title": "Development of Metal Oxide High-Pressure Phases for Photocatalytic Properties by Severe Plastic Deformation", "publication_date": "2019-05-30", "type": "article", "venue": "MATERIALS TRANSACTIONS", "language": "en", "abstract": "Photocatalytic activity of most metal oxides is restricted to the ultraviolet (UV) range of solar spectrum due to their large band gap. Since UV accounts for only 5% of the solar spectrum, designing metal oxide semiconductors with capability of absorbing visible light has been widely attempted. The large band gap of metal oxides can be reduced by various methods like doping with metallic or non-metallic ions, however a better photocatalytic activity can not be achieved necessarily by these methods due to fast recombinations of electron and hole. In recent years, authors have paid attention to the high pressure phases of metal oxides, which theoretically possess narrow band gaps, being able to absorb visible light. In this review, high pressure phases of well-known metal oxides like titania (TiO2), zirconia (ZnO), and yttria (Y2O3) have been stabilized by applying a severe plastic deformation method, and photocatalytic properties of them have been evaluated."}
{"screen_id": "S23697", "doi": "10.1186/s42649-024-00100-4", "title": "In situ observation of catalyst nanoparticle sintering resistance on oxide supports via gas phase transmission electron microscopy", "publication_date": "2024-09-17", "type": "article", "venue": "Han-guk hyeonmigyeong hakoeji/Applied microscopy", "language": "en", "abstract": "Oxide-supported metal catalysts are essential components in industrial processes for catalytic conversion. However, the performance of these catalysts is often compromised in high temperature reaction environments due to sintering effects. Currently, a number of studies are underway with the objective of improving the metal support interaction (MSI) effect in order to enhance sintering resistance by surface modification of the oxide support, including the formation of inhomogeneous defects on the oxide support, the addition of a rare earth element, the use of different facets, encapsulation, and other techniques. The recent developments in in situ gas phase transmission electron microscopy (TEM) have enabled direct observation of the sintering process of NPs in real time. This capability further allows to verify the efficacy of the methods used to tailor the support surface and contributes effectively to improving sintering resistance. Here, we review a few selected studies on how in situ gas phase TEM has been used to prevent the sintering of catalyst NPs on oxide supports."}
{"screen_id": "S30366", "doi": "10.1038/s41467-026-75396-9", "title": "Visualizing dual-sites synergistic catalysis in non-iridium catalysts for acidic oxygen evolution reaction", "publication_date": "2026-07-13", "type": "article", "venue": "Nature Communications", "language": "en", "abstract": "Understanding electron transfer at the solid/liquid electrochemical interface is critical for deciphering synergistic catalysis, yet elucidating how metal dopants mediate charge transfer between adjacent active centers remains challenging. Here, we incorporate a series of metal dopants (Cu, Mn, W) into RuO2 to investigate how dual-site (M–Ru) electron transfer affects catalytic activity and stability. Combining in situ characterization with theoretical simulations, we reveal that Mn doping intensifies Ru 4d–O 2p orbital coupling and establishes unidirectional electron transfer, which peroxidizes Ru under high voltage and accelerates performance degradation. In contrast, W doping modulates the Ru 4d- and O 2p-band centers to reduce orbital overlap, weakening Ru–O covalency and enabling bidirectional electron transfer. Functioning as a voltage-gated electron regulator, the W site dynamically switches roles: at low potentials it acts as an electron acceptor to activate Ru sites and promote water dissociation, while at high potentials it serves as an electron donor to suppress Ru peroxidation. This mechanism endows the catalyst with good stability, showing negligible activity decay during 300 hours of operation at 500 mA cm⁻². Understanding electron transfer dynamics at the solid–liquid interface is critical for deciphering the mechanism of acidic oxygen evolution. Here, the authors reveal that the dynamic bidirectional electron transfer between W and Ru dual sites underpins the enhanced performance of Ru-based catalysts."}
{"screen_id": "S18518", "doi": "10.3389/fchem.2023.1162183", "title": "Recent advances on catalysts for photocatalytic selective hydrogenation of nitrobenzene to aniline", "publication_date": "2023-03-10", "type": "article", "venue": "Frontiers in Chemistry", "language": "en", "abstract": "Selective hydrogenation of nitrobenzene (SHN) is an important approach to synthesize aniline, an essential intermediate with extremely high research significance and value in the fields of textiles, pharmaceuticals and dyes. SHN reaction requires high temperature and high hydrogen pressure via the conventional thermal-driven catalytic process. On the contrary, photocatalysis provides an avenue to achieve high nitrobenzene conversion and high selectivity towards aniline at room temperature and low hydrogen pressure, which is in line with the sustainable development strategies. Designing efficient photocatalysts is a crucial step in SHN. Up to now, several photocatalysts have been explored for photocatalytic SHN, such as TiO2, CdS, Cu/graphene and Eosin Y. In this review, we divide the photocatalysts into three categories based on the characteristics of the light harvesting units, including semiconductors, plasmonic metal-based catalysts and dyes. The recent progress of the three categories of photocatalysts is summarized, the challenges and opportunities are pointed out and the future development prospects are described. It aims to give a clear picture to the catalysis community and stimulate more efforts in this research area."}
{"screen_id": "S14163", "doi": "10.18297/etd/3478", "title": "Electrochemical reduction of carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide for the production of green fuels and chemicals.", "publication_date": "2020-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": null, "language": "en", "abstract": "It has become apparent that closing the carbon cycle on this planet in order to mitigate disastrous consequences of runaway global warming has become one of the most pressing issues of our civilization. One of the ways we need to accomplish this goal is by finding news methods to generate fuels that will be carbon neutral. Renewable fuels and green chemicals will be a major component of closing the carbon cycle and restoring our planet’s ecosystem into a sense of balance. A method that can help achieve this goal is the reduction of CO2. If CO2 can be a desirable reactant on a large enough scale to produce fuels and chemicals, many industries will greatly benefit from the implementation of CO2 reduction technologies. This would in turn make removing CO2 from the atmosphere a worthy and realistic endeavor while reducing the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere. Reducing CO2 concentrations in the atmosphere will help mitigate global warming. In the following dissertation, several methods are discussed that aid in the development of CO2 electroreduction. The goal of which is to improve the overall efficiency of current CO2 electroreduction technology. The first major effort assesses the contaminants emanating from the membrane component of the CO2 electroreduction vii device, alleviating the issue of spurious product detection. The second effort involves the tuning of product selectivity on oxide-derived copper catalyst by pulsing the bias. The third effort details the pursuit of a stand-alone “artificial leaf” technology for the reduction of carbon monoxide. The electrochemical investigations undertaken in this dissertation discuss in detail the metrics and principles used to accomplish these works."}
