{"screen_id": "S24967", "doi": "10.26799/cp-sict-2024/1", "title": "Investigation of Thermal and Mechanical Properties of Ti-Si-B-C Nanocomposite Coatings", "publication_date": "2024-05-30", "type": "conference-paper", "venue": null, "language": "en", "abstract": "Nanocomposite Ti-Si-B-C coatings were analyzed regarding their hardness, fracture toughness, and oxidation resistance. These coatings were deposited by plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD). Self-organization during coating deposition leads to a nanocomposite coating structure, consisting of nanocrystalline TiC grains embedded in an amorphous matrix. This coating system was deposited on nitride AISI H11 hot working steel with a TiN interlayer and offered good adhesion (HF2). With a hardness of 29.2 GPa, the coating system is a possible candidate for application as a wear reducing coating on a tool surface. In view of the harsh environment in many tribological applications in hot forming or molding, the thermal stability and oxidation resistance are of special interest. In-situ X-ray diffraction analysis at elevated temperatures showed the beginning of TiO2 formation at 800 °C, marking it as the starting point for oxidation. With an increase in temperature, the TiO2 reflexes get stronger, but (200) TiC remains the strongest reflex."}
{"screen_id": "S07866", "doi": null, "title": "Synthesis and Characterization of NbOx Thin Film", "publication_date": "2019-04-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "HARVEST (University of Saskatchewan)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Niobium Oxides (NbOx) thin films have been deposited on silicon (100) and quartz substrates by magnetron sputtering using metallic Nb target in an optimized argon-oxygen atmosphere. To date, suitable deposition conditions for crystalline NbOx thin films by reactive sputtering techniques have not been established. Therefore, this work investigates the dependence of structure-property relations on the key deposition parameters towards establishing optimum deposition conditions for the growth of NbOx crystalline films. It is found that a substrate temperature of 720 °C, low gas pressures of 8 mtorr and a target to substrate distance of 45 mm gives NbOx thin films with good homogeneity and a high degree of crystallinity. X-Ray Diffraction (XRD) and Raman spectroscopy confirmed the tetragonal phase of NbO2 and orthorhombic phase of Nb2O5 for similar deposition temperatures. Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) observations indicate that NbO2 has a unique nanoslice structure while Nb2O5 has a flake-like structure. Effect of post deposition annealing on the structural properties are also investigated in this dissertation. It is found that structural changes in NbO2 samples are prominent after annealing in air or Ar atmosphere. In contrast, well crystalline Nb2O5 samples do not show significant changes after annealing in air atmosphere. However, amorphous Nb2O5 can be transformed to tetragonal NbO2 after annealing in Ar atmosphere (reduction). The electrical conductivity and optical transmittance of the films have been investigated and found to be dependent on the oxygen gas content; the conductivity increases, and the optical transmittance decreases with increasing O2 gas content. Optical constants of the films were calculated by fitting model calculations to experimental transmittance data using the modified Swanepoel technique. The nanohardness and stress in the films were measured by nanoindentation and an optical profilometer, respectively. Nano hardness and stress in the film show no large dependence on the oxygen gas content except at high oxygen gas content. V being one of the prominent transition metals, is doped with NbO2 to evaluate the structural variations and the optical transmittance. It is found that higher sputtering power of V is required to be doped with NbO2 and V contents have less effect on optical transmittance of NbO2."}
{"screen_id": "S05804", "doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-04248-y", "title": "Defect-enriched iron fluoride-oxide nanoporous thin films bifunctional catalyst for water splitting", "publication_date": "2018-04-30", "type": "article", "venue": "Nature Communications", "language": "en", "abstract": "Developing cost-effective electrocatalysts operated in the same electrolyte for water splitting, including oxygen and hydrogen evolution reactions, is important for clean energy technology and devices. Defects in electrocatalysts strongly influence their chemical properties and electronic structures, and can dramatically improve electrocatalytic performance. However, the development of defect-activated electrocatalyst with an efficient and stable water electrolysis activity in alkaline medium remains a challenge, and the understanding of catalytic origin is still limited. Here, we highlight defect-enriched bifunctional eletrocatalyst, namely, three-dimensional iron fluoride-oxide nanoporous films, fabricated by anodization/fluorination process. The heterogeneous films with high electrical conductivity possess embedded disorder phases in crystalline lattices, and contain numerous scattered defects, including interphase boundaries, stacking faults, oxygen vacancies, and dislocations on the surfaces/interface. The heterocatalysts efficiently catalyze water splitting in basic electrolyte with remarkable stability. Experimental studies and first-principle calculations suggest that the surface/edge defects contribute significantly to their high performance."}
{"screen_id": "S10853", "doi": "10.1007/s40843-020-1456-x", "title": "Nanostructured CdS for efficient photocatalytic H2 evolution: A review", "publication_date": "2020-10-10", "type": "article", "venue": "Science China Materials", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S30063", "doi": "10.1002/ange.7876559", "title": "Strain Engineering via W–O–Ru Interfacial Coupling to Suppress Lattice Oxygen Activation for Stable Acidic Water Electrolysis", "publication_date": "2026-06-18", "type": "article", "venue": "Angewandte Chemie", "language": "de", "abstract": "ABSTRACT Developing highly active and durable acidic oxygen evolution reaction (OER) electrocatalysts remains a central challenge for proton‐exchange membrane water electrolysis (PEMWE). Here, we combine theory‐guided design, atomic‐layer engineering, and operando spectroscopy to create a structurally robust, mechanistically tuned Ru‐based catalyst. Density functional theory reveals that depositing W 1 O 3 onto RuO 2 maximizes Ru and O vacancy formation energies, outperforming other tested transition metals. Guided by this, we employ atomic layer deposition to construct atomically coupled W–O–Ru interfacial units on RuO 2 (W–O–RuO 2 ), generating a tensile‐stressed surface while preserving the rutile core. Comprehensive in situ spectroscopy and mass spectrometry demonstrate that this architecture effectively suppresses lattice–oxygen activation, shifting the reaction from a lattice–oxygen mechanism to a more reversible adsorbate evolution mechanism. Operando x‐ray absorption spectroscopy confirms the dynamic stability of the W–O–Ru interface during OER, which evolves into a resilient, mildly compressive (1%) state without degrading. Consequently, W–O–RuO 2 demands a mere 168 mV overpotential at 10 mA cm − 2 and sustains 1 A cm − 2 in a PEMWE device for 1000 h with an ultra‐low degradation rate of 63.3 µV/h. This work establishes interfacial unit engineering as a generalizable blueprint for designing exceptionally stable acidic OER catalysts."}
{"screen_id": "S22576", "doi": "10.1111/ter.12717", "title": "U‐Pb carbonate dating reveals long‐lived activity of proximal margin extensional faults during the Alpine Tethys rifting", "publication_date": "2024-04-21", "type": "article", "venue": "Terra Nova", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract Syn‐rift extensional faults play a significant role during the early stage of rifting. Constraining the age of faulting, and how and when deformation shifts from the proximal to the distal margin areas, is crucial for the reconstruction of the rifting process. Previous assessments of the structural and temporal evolution of rift‐related faults of the Adria proximal margin have primarily relied on indirect biostratigraphic evidence. Additionally, the majority of rift‐related faults underwent tectonic inversion during the Alpine orogeny. In this study, in‐situ U‐Pb geochronology was applied on syn‐kinematic calcites to unravel the activity of the Amora Fault, a remarkable example of a Jurassic growth fault unaffected by the Alpine orogeny. The obtained ages, spanning from Hettangian to Callovian, extend the AF activity beyond the previously established Early Jurassic time. This chrono‐structural model has significant implications on the role of major extensional faults in focusing deformation throughout the rift system's evolution."}
{"screen_id": "S13669", "doi": "10.1016/j.chemgeo.2021.120604", "title": "U-Pb ID-TIMS reference ages and initial Pb isotope compositions for Durango and Wilberforce apatites", "publication_date": "2021-10-29", "type": "article", "venue": "Chemical Geology", "language": "en", "abstract": "We present new Isotope Dilution Thermal Ionisation Mass Spectrometry (ID-TIMS) U-Pb reference ages for apatites from type locations Durango, Cerro de Mercado, Mexico and Wilberforce, Ontario, Canada. A weighted mean 206Pb/238U obtained from 14 Durango apatite fragments yields an age of 32.716 ± 0.061/0.063/0.072 Ma (2σ analytical uncertainty; analytical and tracer uncertainty combined; analytical, tracer, and decay constant uncertainties combined; MSWD = 0.81). Correction of excess 206Pb from Th-disequilibrium in Durango apatite, using a Th/Umelt of 3.5 ± 1, yields a weighted mean 206Pb/238U age of 32.29 ± 0.12/0.12/0.12 Ma. A concordia-constrained linear 3-D isochron yields an age of 32.683 ± 0.050 Ma for Durango apatites (ratio + error (%) + correlation coefficients; MSWD = 7.6; no propagation of decay constant and Pbc composition uncertainty, isoplot v. 4.15). A weighted mean 206Pb/238U obtained from 9 Wilberforce apatite fragments yield an age of 930.9 ± 8.0/8.0/8.1 Ma (MSWD = 0.65). Excess 206Pb correction for Wilberforce is negligible (<100kyr) relative to the uncertainty. A concordia-constrained linear 3-D isochron yields an age of 923 ± 14 Ma (ratio + error (%) + correlation coefficients; MSWD = 367; no propagation of decay constant and Pbc composition uncertainty, isoplot v. 4.15) for Wilberforce apatites. Initial Pb isotope compositions for these apatites were obtained by regression of the U-Pb data (3-D linear regression) and yielded a 206Pb/204Pb of 18.19 ± 0.12 and 207Pb/204Pb of 15.67 ± 0.10 for the Durango apatite reference material, and a 206Pb/204Pb of 17.06 ± 0.37 and 207Pb/204Pb of 15.33 ± 0.29 for the Wilberforce apatite reference material. Varying the assumed initial Pb composition can have significant effects on the calculated U-Pb age of apatites, which is highlighted with synthetic apatite data based on the composition of the Durango apatite reference material. For Durango apatites, the frequently used estimates of common Pb from two-stage Pb evolution models can artificially shift the U-Pb data and yield inaccurate dates, relative to the use of 3-D isochrons constructed using data obtained from Durango apatite. The use of 3-D isochrons to extract initial Pb isotope data should be restricted to samples/material with single U-Pb date population (closed system) and where estimates from Pb-bearing-U-free co-genetic mineral phases is unavailable and evaluated on a case-by-case basis."}
{"screen_id": "S16788", "doi": "10.1039/d2nr03441g", "title": "Extreme structural stability of Ti 0.5 Sn 0.5 O 2 nanoparticles: synergistic effect in the cationic sublattice", "publication_date": "2022-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Nanoscale", "language": "en", "abstract": "solid solution shows an extended stability at the nanoscale, both of its cationic and anionic sublattices. This ultrastability originates from the contribution of Ti and Sn mixing: Sn stabilizes the cationic network at high pressure and Ti ensures a coupling between the cationic and anionic sublattices. This result questions a \"traditional\" crystallographic description based on polyhedra packing and this synergistic effect reported in this work is similar to the case of metamaterials but at the nanoscale."}
{"screen_id": "S29827", "doi": "10.1021/acsami.6c00590", "title": "How Silica Surface Chemistry Modulates Interfacial Water: Insights from Machine Learning Molecular Dynamics", "publication_date": "2026-05-19", "type": "article", "venue": "ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces", "language": "en", "abstract": "Controlling water structure and dynamics at silica interfaces are central to a wide range of technologies, including protective oxide layers for solar water splitting and nanoporous membranes. In this work, we develop a machine learning interatomic potential, trained via active learning, to achieve ab initio accuracy for water confined between hydroxylated silica surfaces over a range of silanol coverages and slit widths. We find that partially hydroxylated surfaces (50 and 75% OH) support stronger water-surface hydrogen bonding and more extended interfacial density profiles than fully hydroxylated (100% OH) surfaces, indicating that increasing OH coverage does not necessarily strengthen interfacial hydrogen-bond networks. Translational diffusion decreases approximately linearly with slit width and OH coverage, whereas rotational dynamics respond nonlinearly. In particular, at the smallest slit width of 5 Å, 75% OH coverage produces an enhanced local tetrahedral ordered interfacial network that strongly suppresses reorientation, while 100% coverage yields a crowded, disordered interfacial layer that also hinders rotation. In contrast, the 50% OH coverage is sufficiently sparse that it does not markedly alter water structure or dynamics under confinement. These results show that coupled control of pore size and surface chemistry enables nonlinear tuning of interfacial water structure and transport, providing a design strategy for optimizing porous silica for either enhanced interfacial stability and controlled reactivity or rapid and selective transport."}
{"screen_id": "S30718", "doi": "10.6084/m9.figshare.33184597", "title": "Interpretable data-driven discovery of high-performance multielement metal oxide electrocatalysts for oxygen evolution reaction from a small hybrid dataset", "publication_date": "2026-08-07", "type": "article", "venue": "Figshare", "language": null, "abstract": "One of the most formidable challenges in materials chemistry is the rational design of functionalities capable of dramatically enhancing performance. However, it is well-known that the discovery of promising materials often requires several decades of continuous trial-and-error. Herein, we show an interpretable data-driven framework for the discovery of multielement metal oxide oxygen evolution reaction (OER) electrocatalysts in alkaline media within a substantially shorter timeframe. This framework was trained on a hybrid dataset comprising only 557 data, consisting of the curated literature and our own experimental results. Furthermore, this framework was specifically designed to enable extrapolative materials discovery, including the exploration of elemental combinations absent from the training database. Consequently, from a large material search space of approximately 3 million candidates, we identified a promising unconventional quinary oxide composed of V, Ni, W, Rh, and Ru that exhibits, in 0.1 M KOH, an exchange current density approximately 20 times higher than that of IrO2. This work serves as a proof-of-concept, demonstrating that the rational design of high-performance electrochemical functionalities from an extensive candidate space can be achieved using a small hybrid dataset combined with an interpretable data-driven approach. This work develops an extrapolative-sniping artificial intelligence framework based on a small hybrid database comprising 557 data, accelerating the discovery of multielement metal oxide electrocatalysts with excellent oxygen evolution performance."}
{"screen_id": "S02326", "doi": "10.1111/jace.14128", "title": "Ni‐Ti Codoped Hibonite Ceramic Pigments by Combustion Synthesis: Crystal Structure and Optical Properties", "publication_date": "2016-02-07", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of the American Ceramic Society", "language": "en", "abstract": "Hibonite (CaAl 12 O 19 , space group [s.g.] P 6 3 / mmc ) has the structural formula A [ XII ] M1 [ VI ] M2 [V] M3 2 [ IV ] M4 2 [ VI ] M5 6 [ VI ] O 19 , where Ca is 12‐fold coordinated at site A and Al 3+ ions are distributed over five different sites: three distinct octahedra [M1 (point symmetry D 3 d ), M4 (C 3v ) and M5 (C s )], the M3 tetrahedron (C 3v ), and the unusual fivefold coordinated trigonal bipyramid M2 (D 3 h ). Hibonite is able to accommodate a wide range of ions with different valence and coordination, making its structure a promising ceramic pigment. One of the main challenges is to understand and control incorporation mechanisms and the threshold of chromophores solubility. It is known that M 2+ ions tend to be hosted at the M3 site, while M 4+ ions are preferentially accommodated at the M4 site: the introduction of divalent ions might be promoted by the associated incorporation of tetravalent cations, which ensure the lattice electroneutrality and are ordered over the M4 face‐sharing octahedral dimers. In this work, the mechanism of the coupled substitution 2Al 3+ →(Ni 2+ +Ti 4+ ) was investigated by combining X‐ray powder diffraction and diffuse reflectance spectroscopy techniques. Hibonite turquoise pigments with increasing Ni+Ti doping (CaAl 12‒2 x Ni x Ti x O 19 where x = 0.1‒2.0 apfu) were prepared by combustion synthesis, utilizing a fuel mixture (urea, glycine, β‐alanine) set up according to their compatibility with metal nitrates used as raw materials. The ignition temperature of combustion reaction was 400°C, but samples underwent an additional annealing at 1200°C. Samples up to x = 0.4 are monophasic; for higher doping, hibonite is the main component accompanied by growing percentages of spinel and perovskite phases. The Ni and Ti addition induced a regular increase in the hibonite unit‐cell parameters until x = 1.0, that is proportional to the amount and difference in ionic radii of dopants. In particular, an elongation of the 〈M–O〉 bond distances of both M3 and M4 sites was observed. In terms of optical parameters, Ni 2+ is preferentially incorporated in tetrahedral coordination, up to 0.3 apfu at the M3 site, and at the M4 octahedron as well (up to 0.19 apfu). The crystal field strength of fourfold coordinated Ni 2+ is regularly decreasing, implying an elongation of the local Ni–O bond that is coherent with the volume increasing from AlO 4 to NiO 4 tetrahedra registered by XRD . Ti 4+ ions are accommodated at both the M2 and M4 octahedra which expand proportionally to the amount of dopants. Pigment purity and color strength vary with doping depending on the multistep mechanism of Ni and Ti incorporation in the hibonite lattice."}
{"screen_id": "S05630", "doi": "10.1039/c8tb00149a", "title": "Progress in TiO 2 nanotube coatings for biomedical applications: a review", "publication_date": "2018-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Materials Chemistry B", "language": "en", "abstract": "Titanium dioxide nanotubes (TNTs) have drawn wide attention and been extensively applied in the field of biomedicine, due to their large specific surface area, good corrosion resistance, excellent biocompatibility, and enhanced bioactivity. This review describes the preparation of TNTs and the surface modification that entrust the nanotubes with better antibacterial property and enhanced osteoblast adhesion, proliferation, and differentiation. Considering the contact between TNTs' surface and surrounding tissues after implantation, the interactions between TNTs (with properties including their diameter, length, wettability, and crystalline phase) and proteins, platelets, bacteria, and cells are illustrated. The state of the art in the applications of TNTs in dentistry, orthopedic implants, and cardiovascular stents are introduced. In particular, the application of TNTs in biosensing has attracted much attention due to its ability for the rapid diagnosis of diseases. Finally, the difficulties and challenges in the practical application of TNTs are also discussed."}
{"screen_id": "S13806", "doi": "10.3389/fbioe.2021.732461", "title": "Cellulose-Based Nanofibril Composite Materials as a New Approach to Fight Bacterial Infections", "publication_date": "2021-11-11", "type": "article", "venue": "Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology", "language": "en", "abstract": "Antibiotic resistant microorganisms have become an enormous global challenge, and are predicted to cause hundreds of millions of deaths. Therefore, the search for novel/alternative antimicrobial agents is a grand global challenge. Cellulose is an abundant biopolymer with the advantages of low cost, biodegradability, and biocompatibility. With the recent growth of nanotechnology and nanomedicine, numerous researchers have investigated nanofibril cellulose to try to develop an anti-bacterial biomaterial. However, nanofibril cellulose has no inherent antibacterial activity, and therefore cannot be used on its own. To empower cellulose with anti-bacterial properties, new efficient nanomaterials have been designed based on cellulose-based nanofibrils as potential wound dressings, food packaging, and for other antibacterial applications. In this review we summarize reports concerning the therapeutic potential of cellulose-based nanofibrils against various bacterial infections."}
{"screen_id": "S29090", "doi": null, "title": "Mise au point de nanomatériaux catalytiques pour la lutte contre la pollution. application a la production de biocarburant", "publication_date": "2020-09-11", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "Dépôt Institutionnel de lUniversité de Tlemcen", "language": "fr", "abstract": ": biocarburant, biomasse lignocellulosique, hydrodéoxygénation directe, catalyse bifonctionnelle, silice alumine, acidité, ruthenium"}
{"screen_id": "S25506", "doi": "10.1039/d5sc01861g", "title": "Formation of open ruthenium branched structures with highly exposed active sites for oxygen evolution reaction electrocatalysis", "publication_date": "2025-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Chemical Science", "language": "en", "abstract": "The formation of exposed active sites that have high activity and stability for oxygen evolution reaction (OER) catalysis is a significant opportunity for improving water electrolysers. Low-index facets surface Ru can achieve both high activity and stability for OER. Here, we present a new catalyst design where low-index faceted Ru branches are grown off the corners of Pt nanocubes, forming open Ru branched nanoparticles. This open branched structure, exposing low-index facets on its length-tunable branch, enables a high electrochemically active surface area (ECSA), achieving high activity and stability for OER. This design strategy and synthetic control provide a principle for achieving high-performance OER nanocatalysts."}
