{"screen_id": "S10624", "doi": null, "title": "Vliv přípravy Fe-TiO2 fotokatalyzátorů na vlastnosti a aktivitu připravených materiálů", "publication_date": "2018-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "Digitální knihovna Univerzity Pardubice (Univerzity Pardubice)", "language": "cs", "abstract": "V rámci diplomové práce jsem se zabývala studiem Fe-TiO2 fotokatalyzátorů. Studované Fe-TiO2 fotokatalyzátory byly připraveny třemi odlišnými metodami, jejichž vliv na vlastnosti Fe-TiO2 fotokatalyzátorů byl hlavním tématem této práce. Fe-TiO2/I fotokatalyzátory byly připraveny metodou impregnace, Fe-TiO2/K fotokatalyzátory byly připraveny metodou sol-gel s následnou kalcinací a Fe-TiO2/E fotokatalyzátory byly připraveny metodou sol-gel s následnou extrakcí. Všechny Fe-TiO2 fotokatalyzátory byly připraveny v koncentrační řadě s obsahem Fe od 0,2 do 1,5 hm. %. Jako referenční materiály byly rovněž připraveny Fe-TiO2/I fotokatalyzátory s vysokým obsahem Fe 3,5 a 5,0 hm. %. Charakterizace strukturních, optických a elektronových vlastností, stejně tak charakterizace Fe částic nacházející se v Fe-TiO2 fotokatalyzátorech byla provedena s využitím rentgenové difrakční analýzy (XRD), Ramanovy a difusně reflexní spektroskopie, fotoproudé spektroskopie a teplotně programované redukce (TPR). V neposlední řadě byla studována fotokatalytická aktivita Fe-TiO2 fotokatalyzátorů během rozkladu methanolu."}
{"screen_id": "S25589", "doi": "10.1051/bsgf/2025012", "title": "Permian fluid circulation and deformation along a crustal-scale shear zone in the Montagne Noire gneiss dome (southern French Massif Central)", "publication_date": "2025-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Bulletin de la Société Géologique de France", "language": "en", "abstract": "U-Th-Pb LA-ICPMS (Laser Ablation − Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry) has the power to elucidate the timing of metamorphism, deformation, migmatization, and plutonism. The Montagne Noire Variscan gneiss dome (southern French Massif Central) has been extensively studied, but interpretations of geochronology data remain highly debated. In tribute to Jean-Louis Paquette’s work, we first present the results of the last 10 yr of reflection on our knowledge of the Montagne Noire dome, highlighting the various contributions of LA-ICPMS U-Th-Pb geochronology. Then, based on new structural, petrological and U-Th-Pb data obtained in the southeastern part of the Montagne Noire Axial Zone (MNAZ), in “Les Gorges d’Héric” valley, we provide new insight into the structure and strain partitioning in this region and propose the existence of a crustal-scale dextral shear zone that we name the “Gorges d’Héric Shear Zone” (GHSZ). The LA-ICPMS U-Th-Pb age on monazite, obtained on a pegmatite cross-cutting vertical structures on the southern margin of the GHSZ, constrains the end of ductile deformation at ca. 295 Ma in that part of the shear zone. Further north, a localized deformation corridor is accompanied by significant fluid circulation recorded in retrogressed metamafic lenses. Petrographic observations reveal a complex mineralogical evolution characterised by the formation of garnet, amphibole, orthopyroxene, and secondary spinel, interpreted as the product of fluid-driven mineral reactions. Potassium metasomatism is responsible for the development of syn-kinematic biotite. The final retrograde stage is marked by the development of amphibole + chlorite assemblages and late serpentinization reactions. U-Th-Pb results obtained on zircon grains highlight a long and complex geological history. Three age populations have been identified and associated with: (1) the magmatic protolith emplacement likely to be linked to early Paleozoic event(s), (2) the existence of a ca. 315 Ma event interpreted as a high-grade metamorphic imprint and (3) a last corresponding to most of the zircon U-Pb data gives a concordia age of 280.6 ± 2.5 Ma, interpreted as the age of zircon (re)crystallization during localized deformation and aqueous fluid circulation along the GHSZ, probably related to the well-known early Permian regional volcanic episode. Within the GHSZ, the geochronological dataset spans the period from 320 Ma to 280 Ma, suggesting that this is a significant structure."}
{"screen_id": "S31145", "doi": "10.1038/s41467-026-77517-w", "title": "Directing Ru-based acidic oxygen evolution catalysts toward a universal dual-site pathway", "publication_date": "2026-09-05", "type": "article", "venue": "Nature Communications", "language": "en", "abstract": "The oxide path mechanism offers vision possibility from kinetics for the anodic oxygen evolution reaction, yet its universal activation remains elusive due to the difficulty of constructing globally appropriate interatomic distances. Here, we address this challenge in the integrated-screened Y0.1Ir0.2Ru0.7Ox by precisely regulating the Ru-Ru1 bond length and constructing locally ordered yet long-range disordered structures that dissipate lattice strain, thereby enabling homogeneous modulation of interatomic distances across the framework. In-situ infrared spectroscopy together with online mass spectrometry confirms that the catalyst consistently follows a universal pathway. Building on these structural and mechanistic advantages, the nanostructured catalyst achieves a low cell voltage of 1.75 V@3 A cm-2 with operational stability ( > 2800 h @ 3 A cm-2, 0.0625 mV h-1 decay rate) in proton exchange membrane water electrolysis. This work establishes a generalizable framework for pervasive dual-site catalysis, providing a paradigm for next-generation water electrolysis anodes and beyond. The elementary steps of oxygen evolution reactions challenge efficient water electrolysis. Here, the authors develop a scalable short-range ordered dual-site strategy that activates the universal oxygen-path mechanism, enabling stable acidic water electrolysis at high current densities."}
{"screen_id": "S01218", "doi": "10.1088/0022-3727/47/19/195201", "title": "Elaboration of a wide range of TiO2micro/nanostructures by high power impulse inverted cylindrical magnetron sputtering", "publication_date": "2014-04-23", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Physics D Applied Physics", "language": "en", "abstract": "An inverted cylindrical magnetron sputtering reactor mode was used for TiO 2 thin films deposition. The high voltage was delivered to the target in dc mode and in pulsed mode at low frequency (250 Hz) to reach high power impulse magnetron sputtering (HiPIMS) regimes and obtain subsequent higher plasma ionization rates. Time-resolved electrical and optical characterizations of the discharge were performed and the layer's chemistry, morphology and microstructure were characterized using x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy, atomic force microscopy, x-ray diffraction (XRD) and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) analysis. In accordance to the conclusions described in the literature for TiO 2 HiPIMS deposition in planar configuration, it is shown that the increase of peak target current (induced by the decrease of the duty cycle at constant average power) leads to smoothening and densification of the layers. The microstructure of the coatings is also strongly influenced by the energy and the flux of the incoming species to the substrate. XRD experiments show that passing from dc to HiPIMS mode leads to a transition from anatase to rutile formation, but HRTEM analyses allows one to highlight that the proportion of amorphous domains is also increased when increasing the energy delivered to the growing film. It results in the obtaining of layers with globular structure composed of rutile nano-crystallites embedded in an amorphous matrix."}
{"screen_id": "S31179", "doi": "10.1016/j.gee.2026.09.002", "title": "Advancements in TiO2-based photoanode for photocathodic protection: Strategies for enhancing the separation of photogenerated carriers", "publication_date": "2026-09-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Green Energy & Environment", "language": "en", "abstract": "Photocathodic protection technology is a green, environmentally friendly method for metal corrosion prevention. TiO 2 is a commonly used photoanode material in the photocathodic protection area. However, its limited solar response range and low photoelectric conversion efficiency restrict further improvement of its protection performance. To address these issues, the construction of TiO 2 -based heterojunctions has been demonstrated as an effective strategy for enhancing photoelectrochemical performance and improving cathodic protection efficiency. This review systematically summarizes the main synthesis strategies on TiO 2 -based heterojunction photoanodes, reviews recent research progress of TiO 2 -based heterojunction photoanodes, and reviews recent advances in their application to photocathodic protection. The separation and migration pathways of photogenerated carriers in Type-II, Z-scheme, and S-scheme heterojunctions are elucidated, together with relevant characterization methods. Finally, the application prospects and future research directions of TiO 2 -based heterojunction photoanodes are analyzed and discussed."}
{"screen_id": "S19816", "doi": "10.1016/j.chemosphere.2023.139575", "title": "Photoelectrocatalytic treatment of municipal wastewater with emerging concern pollutants using modified multi-layer catalytic anode", "publication_date": "2023-07-22", "type": "article", "venue": "Chemosphere", "language": "en", "abstract": "Municipal wastewater contains emergent chemical and biological pollutants that are resistant to conventional wastewater treatments. Therefore, the focus of the current study was to address the challenge of removing emergent chemical and biological pollutants present in municipal wastewater. To achieve this, a photo electro-catalytic (PEC) treatment approach was employed, focusing on the removal of both micro and biological pollutants that are of emergent concern, as well as the reduction of Chemical Oxidation Demand (COD) and Total Organic Carbon (TOC). The treatment involved the use of a modified multi-layer catalytic anode photo-electroactive anode as an effective anode for PEC treatment of municipal wastewater. In the continuous mode of operation, %COD removal was optimized for the treatment of municipal wastewater under Ultra-Violet C (UVc), 280 nm, and Visible (Vis) radiation, 400 nm. Therefore, a comparative study was performed to investigate the effect of Vis radiation on %COD removal, micropollutants removal, and disinfection of municipal wastewater. Micropollutants present in municipal wastewater were effectively oxidized/degraded with the highest reduction rate between 100% and 80% under the influence of UVc and Vis radiation respectively by the PEC treatment process. Disinfection of various microorganisms present in the wastewater with the effect of UVc and Vis assisted PEC treatment was also monitored. Overall, 75-80% of the disinfection of municipal wastewater was contributed by the modified multi-layer catalytic anode. The UVc in the PEC system, contributes approximately 20-25% to the overall disinfection of municipal wastewater."}
{"screen_id": "S02051", "doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2015.11.013", "title": "Template-assisted synthesis of hierarchically porous Co 3 O 4 with enhanced oxygen evolution activity", "publication_date": "2015-12-03", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Energy Chemistry", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S06618", "doi": "10.1016/j.epsl.2018.10.022", "title": "Secular change in TTG compositions: Implications for the evolution of Archaean geodynamics", "publication_date": "2018-10-25", "type": "article", "venue": "Earth and Planetary Science Letters", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S04828", "doi": "10.1038/s41598-017-09601-7", "title": "One-reactor plasma assisted fabrication of ZnO@TiO 2 multishell nanotubes: assessing the impact of a full coverage on the photovoltaic performance", "publication_date": "2017-08-22", "type": "article", "venue": "Scientific Reports", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract This paper addresses the fabrication of vertically aligned ZnO@TiO2 multishell nanotubes by a combined full vacuum-plasma approach at mild temperatures. The growth is carried out within the premises of a one-reactor approach, i.e. minimizing the number of vacuum chambers and sample transferences. In this way, the interface between ZnO and TiO2 is fully preserved from humidity thus increasing ZnO durability and stability. These nanostructures are studied by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) and energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy in STEM (EDX-STEM). High density one-dimensional arrays of these nanotubes formed on FTO substrates are applied as photoanode in a dye-sensitized solar cell (DSC). The evolution of the dye adsorption capacity and solar cells parameters are explored as a function of the crystallinity and thickness of the TiO2 shell. The results show the critical effect of a full coverage by TiO2 of ZnO core to explain the mixed results found in the literature."}
{"screen_id": "S12699", "doi": "10.3390/nano11071715", "title": "Three-Dimensional Hierarchical Porous TiO2 for Enhanced Adsorption and Photocatalytic Degradation of Remazol Dye", "publication_date": "2021-06-29", "type": "article", "venue": "Nanomaterials", "language": "en", "abstract": "Three-dimensional hierarchical mesoporous structures of titanium dioxide (3D-HPT) were synthesized by self-assembly emulsion polymerization. Polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) and pluronic 123 (P123) were used as the soft templates and co-templates for assisting the formation of hierarchical 3D porous structures. The TiO2 crystal structure, morphology, and Remazol red dye degradation were investigated. The 3D-HPT and normal three-dimensional titanium dioxide (3D-T) presented the good connection of the nanoparticle-linked honeycomb within the form of anatase. The 3D-HPT structure showed greatly enhanced adsorption of Remazol dye, and facilitated the efficient photocatalytic breakdown of the dye. Surprisingly, 3D-HPT can adsorb approximately 40% of 24 ppm Remazol dye in the dark, which is superior to 3D-T and the commercial anatase at the same condition (approx. 5%). Moreover, 3D-HPT can completely decolorize Remazol dye within just 20 min, which is more than three folds faster than the commercial anatase, making it one of the most active photocatalysts that have been reported for degradation of Remazol dye. The superior photocatalytic performance is attributed to the higher specific surface area, amplified light-harvesting efficiency, and enhanced adsorption capacity into the hierarchical 3D inverse opal structure compared to the commercial anatase TiO2."}
{"screen_id": "S16882", "doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2022.154997", "title": "Direct activation of PMS by highly dispersed amorphous CoOx clusters in anatase TiO2 nanosheets for efficient oxidation of biomass-derived alcohols", "publication_date": "2022-09-23", "type": "article", "venue": "Applied Surface Science", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S00554", "doi": "10.5209/rev_jige.2015.v41.n2.48265", "title": "Primary Au prospecting results in the Logrosán area (Central Iberian Zone, Spain).", "publication_date": "2015-09-16", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Iberian Geology", "language": "en", "abstract": "The Central Iberian Zone presents an exceptional geological interest for its great exploration potential for a number of elements including gold. Metallogeny within the area is mainly related to regional metamorphism and late magmatic activity during the Variscan orogeny. In 2013-2014 junior company Mineral Exploration Network Ltd. has carried out an extensive prospecting field work with a primarily view to discover Au within the area around Logrosan granitic pluton (Cáceres, Spain). The main output of the survey was a localization and presorting of potentially mineralized territory unites at the extensive spatial scale (more than 240 sq. km). The known gold showings in the Central Iberian zone are considered to be synorogenic with a mainly metamorphic fluid source. As arsenic commonly forms widespread geochemical haloes near practically all orogenic gold deposits and appears to be easily and credibly measured by express analytical methods (XRF), it was selected as one of the major pathfinder elements for the initial prospecting. Designed geochemical survey allowed delineating potential target area with contrastive complex As-W-Zn-Pb anomaly in soil sediments and significant quantities of gold particles in heavy mineral concentrates. Placer gold particles analyses and their typomorphic features confirmed nearby primary gold source existence. The suggested scope of work proved to be efficient for assessing mineralization potential and selecting perspective target areas for a detailed drilling."}
{"screen_id": "S13009", "doi": "10.21608/ijmti.2021.181128", "title": "Geology of Rare Metals in Egypt- A review", "publication_date": "2021-06-30", "type": "article", "venue": "International Journal of Materials Technology and Innovation", "language": "en", "abstract": "The term “rare metals” refers in this work to metals with a low availability in natural. Based on their chemistry, rare metals were classified into; 1) rare earth elements (La-Lu), 2) trace elements (Nb, Ta, Mo, Cu, Ni, Co, Sn, W, V), 3) noble elements (Au, Ag, and PGE) and 4) fissionable elements (U and Th). In Egypt, rare earth elements occur in the phosphorites, monazite and granites. Trace elements occur in three associations; a) elements in granites and albite granites such as Nb, Ta, Sn, Mo, and W, b) elements associate mafic rocks and ophiolites include Cu, Ni, and Co, and c) V in the black shales. 95 Au localities were reported mainly as vein-type mineralization in the Eastern Desert. PGE are confined to three associations including mafic and ultramafic rocks, chromite and black shales as sulfides, alloys, and organometallic compounds, respectively. Uranium occurs in granites of the Eastern Desert. Thorium was reported at the Um Ara area at the Eastern Desert and in the monazite from the black sands. Although rare metals are quite common in Egypt, processing and beneficiations of the rare metals-bearing rocks did not reflect the abundance and the economic significance of these metals"}
{"screen_id": "S11162", "doi": "10.1021/acsaem.0c02362", "title": "In Situ Activation of Anodized Ni–Fe Alloys for the Oxygen Evolution Reaction in Alkaline Media", "publication_date": "2020-12-03", "type": "article", "venue": "ACS Applied Energy Materials", "language": "en", "abstract": "A simple anodizing technique has been employed to develop highly active electrocatalysts that can be applied to the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) in alkaline media. NiFe alloys were electrodeposited and anodized to form a porous electrocatalytic layer. This approach produces highly active electrodes without the need for noble metals, binders, or conductive carbon additives. The as-anodized electrode initially exhibits poor OER activity in 1.0 mol dm –3 KOH; however, the effects of potential cycling improve the OER activity to an extent that an overpotential as low as 0.26 V at 10 mA cm –2 is observed for the anodized Ni-11.8 at. % Fe electrode. Although significant in situ activation is achieved with anodized NiFe electrodes, this activation is less significant for as-deposited NiFe or anodized Ni electrodes. Furthermore, OER activity is observed to be composition-dependent, with the Ni-11.8 at. % Fe electrode exhibiting the greatest activity. A porous fluoride-rich, Fe-doped Ni oxyfluoride layer produced by anodizing is converted via potential cycling to an amorphous or poorly crystalline Fe-doped Ni(OH) 2 layer with a nanoflake-like morphology. The high activity is maintained even after the removal of most of the fluoride. Thus, the F-rich, Fe-doped Ni oxyfluoride is a promising precursor to develop a highly active OER electrode."}
{"screen_id": "S14582", "doi": "10.1590/1980-5373-mr-2021-0497", "title": "Morphological and Structural Study of Anodized Titanium Grade 2, Using HCl in Aqueous Solution", "publication_date": "2022-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Materials Research", "language": "en", "abstract": "In this work, the electrochemical anodization process was carried out on titanium grade 2, using an electrolytic solution of 3 M and 0.15 M HCl with voltages of 11 V, 12 V and 15 V, as well as time variations in the experimental process and later an annealing process at 750 °C. According to the results obtained, the TiO2 coatings presented different morphologies on their surface, which consisted of nanopores, nanowires and clusters of oxide grains, as well as a combination of anatase and rutile crystalline phases. Band Gap variations were found to be non-significant despite changes in the morphology of the coatings at different anodization conditions, with an average value of 2.91 eV. It was observed that the anodized samples treated by the annealing process at 750 °C, thickness values up to 16 μm were obtained."}
