{"screen_id": "S19951", "doi": "10.3390/molecules28155838", "title": "The Role of Cerium Valence in the Conversion Temperature of H2Ti3O7 Nanoribbons to TiO2-B and Anatase Nanoribbons, and Further to Rutile", "publication_date": "2023-08-03", "type": "article", "venue": "Molecules", "language": "en", "abstract": "CeO2-TiO2 is an important mixed oxide due to its catalytic properties, particularly in heterogeneous photocatalysis. This study presents a straightforward method to obtain 1D TiO2 nanostructures decorated with CeO2 nanoparticles at the surface. As the precursor, we used H2Ti3O7 nanoribbons prepared from sodium titanate nanoribbons by ion exchange. Two cerium sources with an oxidation state of +3 and +4 were used to obtain mixed oxides. HAADF–STEM mapping of the Ce4+-modified nanoribbons revealed a thin continuous layer at the surface of the H2Ti3O7 nanoribbons, while Ce3+ cerium ions intercalated partially between the titanate layers. The phase composition and morphology changes were monitored during calcination between 620 °C and 960 °C. Thermal treatment led to the formation of CeO2 nanoparticles on the surface of the TiO2 nanoribbons, whose size increased with the calcination temperature. The use of Ce4+ raised the temperature required for converting H2Ti3O7 to TiO2-B by approximately 200 °C, and the temperature for the formation of anatase. For the Ce3+ batch, the presence of cerium inhibited the conversion to rutile. Analysis of cerium oxidation states revealed the existence of both +4 and +3 in all calcined samples, regardless of the initial cerium oxidation state."}
{"screen_id": "S20825", "doi": "10.48550/arxiv.2311.01426", "title": "Going for Gold(-Standard): Attaining Coupled Cluster Accuracy in Oxide-Supported Nanoclusters", "publication_date": "2023-11-02", "type": "preprint", "venue": "arXiv (Cornell University)", "language": "en", "abstract": "The structure of oxide-supported metal nanoclusters plays an essential role in their sharply enhanced catalytic activity over bulk metals. Simulations provide the atomic-scale resolution needed to understand these systems. However, the sensitive mix of metal-metal and metal-support interactions which govern their structure puts stringent requirements on the method used, requiring going beyond standard density functional theory (DFT). The method of choice is coupled cluster theory [specifically CCSD(T)], but its computational cost has so far prevented applications. In this work, we showcase two approaches to make CCSD(T) accuracy readily achievable in oxide-supported nanoclusters. First, we leverage the SKZCAM protocol to provide the first benchmarks of oxide-supported nanoclusters, revealing that it is specifically metal-metal interactions that are challenging to capture with DFT. Second, we propose a CCSD(T) correction ($Δ$CC) to the metal-metal interaction errors in DFT, reaching comparable accuracy to the SKZCAM protocol at significantly lower cost. This forges a path towards studying larger systems at reliable accuracy, which we highlight by identifying a ground state structure in agreement with experiments for Au$_{20}$ on MgO; a challenging system where DFT models have yielded conflicting predictions."}
{"screen_id": "S27241", "doi": "10.3390/met15101159", "title": "Formation and Characterization of Ti-Al Intermetallic and Oxide Layers on Ti6Al4V as Interlayers for Hydroxyapatite Coatings", "publication_date": "2025-10-21", "type": "article", "venue": "Metals", "language": "en", "abstract": "This study explores a novel approach to enhance the surface properties of Ti-Al alloys for biomedical applications by creating a compositional gradient layer through aluminum deposition using Electrical Discharge Machining (EDM). The primary goal was to develop a metallurgically bonded intermetallic zone that supports strong adhesion and improved compatibility for subsequent hydroxyapatite (HA) deposition. Aluminum was deposited onto a Ti6Al4V substrate via EDM under controlled conditions, followed by thermal and thermochemical treatments to induce diffusion and intermetallic phase formation. Comprehensive analyses using optical and electron microscopy (SEM), energy-dispersive spectroscopy (EDS), and X-ray diffraction (XRD) revealed the formation of well-adhered layers composed of complex Ti-Al intermetallics such as TiAl2 and TiAl3, along with oxide phases including TiO2 and Al2O3. Thermal and thermochemical treatments further improved surface hardness, reaching up to 1057 HV, and influenced the diffusion behavior of aluminum, titanium, and vanadium. Adhesion tests confirmed that the untreated and thermochemically treated layers exhibited superior mechanical stability, while thermal treatment alone led to brittleness and delamination. These findings demonstrate that a properly engineered intermediate aluminide layer can significantly improve the performance of bioceramic coatings, particularly HA, by providing enhanced structural integrity and biocompatibility."}
{"screen_id": "S25957", "doi": "10.1016/j.supflu.2025.106682", "title": "Stability assessment of sulfided NiMo-based catalysts for continuous flow supercritical water hydrodeoxygenation applications", "publication_date": "2025-06-04", "type": "article", "venue": "The Journal of Supercritical Fluids", "language": "en", "abstract": "Sulfided NiMo-based catalysts are widely used in hydroprocessing, including hydrotreating and hydrocracking in petroleum refining and renewable fuel production via biomass conversion. The development of hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) for biocrude has increased interest in direct hydrothermal upgrading processes, such as (hydro)deoxygenation and desulfurisation. This study evaluated the stability of NiMo- and NiW-based catalysts under continuous-flow conditions to assess their suitability for hydrothermal upgrading. After just 2 hours in supercritical water (SCW), significant metal leaching was observed: Mo losses ranged from 47–97%, and Ni losses from 35–80%. Sulfidation provided only modest improvement, with losses still at 56–80% for Mo and 52–75% for Ni. Tungsten loss reached 90% in the sulfided NiW catalyst. Mo leaching was particularly severe during the heating phase, with over 60% of Mo and around 20% of Ni lost during heating and cooling, peaking at 200 °C. At 400 °C, leaching rates from unreduced NiMo/AC were 0.4 mg h⁻¹ for Ni and 10 mg h⁻¹ for Mo. Sulfided NiMo showed better Mo stability, with leaching rates of 0.24 mg h⁻¹ for Ni and 3.6 mg h⁻¹ for Mo. These findings highlight the importance of assessing catalyst stability under realistic flow conditions. NiMo-, NiW-, and by extension, CoMo- and CoW-based catalysts are unsuitable for hydrothermal upgrading due to poor stability in SCW, particularly during heat-up and cool-down phases."}
{"screen_id": "S30795", "doi": "10.1016/j.nxmate.2026.103174", "title": "Antimicrobial activity of nano-porous MoS2: Effect of structure and morphology", "publication_date": "2026-08-14", "type": "article", "venue": "Next Materials", "language": "en", "abstract": "Molybdenum disulfide (MoS 2 ) nanoporous powders and thin films on glass substrates were successfully synthesized using an eco-friendly green chemical route. Structural and morphological comparisons were conducted using X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Further both the forms demonstrated strong antibacterial efficacy against Escherichia coli, Bacillus cereus and antifungal activity against C.albicans driven by high surface-area interactions with microbial membranes. Notably, the uniform surface of the thin film provided superior reactive sites, yielding enhanced antimicrobial efficacy compared to the powder form. These findings highlight the potential of these green-synthesized (MoS 2 ) nanomaterials for advanced biomedical and veterinary applications."}
{"screen_id": "S03387", "doi": "10.1016/j.apsusc.2016.09.045", "title": "Macroscale cobalt-MOFs derived metallic Co nanoparticles embedded in N-doped porous carbon layers as efficient oxygen electrocatalysts", "publication_date": "2016-09-14", "type": "article", "venue": "Applied Surface Science", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S22998", "doi": "10.3390/nano14121051", "title": "Investigating the Electronic Properties and Stability of Rh3 Clusters on Rutile TiO2 for Potential Photocatalytic Applications", "publication_date": "2024-06-19", "type": "article", "venue": "Nanomaterials", "language": "en", "abstract": "Addressing the pressing needs for alternatives to fossil fuel-based energy sources, this research explores the intricate interplay between Rhodium (Rh3) clusters and titanium dioxide (TiO2) to improve photocatalytic water splitting for the generation of eco-friendly hydrogen. This research applies the density functional theory (DFT) coupled with the Hartree–Fock theory to meticulously examine the structural and electronic structures of Rh3 clusters on TiO2 (110) interfaces. Considering the photocatalytic capabilities of TiO2 and its inherent limitations in harnessing visible light, the potential for metals such as Rh3 clusters to act as co-catalysts is assessed. The results show that triangular Rh3 clusters demonstrate remarkable stability and efficacy in charge transfer when integrated into rutile TiO2 (110), undergoing oxidation in optimal adsorption conditions and altering the electronic structures of TiO2. The subsequent analysis of TiO2 surfaces exhibiting defects indicates that Rh3 clusters elevate the energy necessary for the formation of an oxygen vacancy, thereby enhancing the stability of the metal oxide. Additionally, the combination of Rh3-cluster adsorption and oxygen-vacancy formation generates polaronic and localized states, crucial for enhancing the photocatalytic activity of metal oxide in the visible light range. Through the DFT analysis, this study elucidates the importance of Rh3 clusters as co-catalysts in TiO2-based photocatalytic frameworks, paving the way for empirical testing and the fabrication of effective photocatalysts for hydrogen production. The elucidated impact on oxygen vacancy formation and electronic structures highlights the complex interplay between Rh3 clusters and TiO2 surfaces, providing insightful guidance for subsequent studies aimed at achieving clean and sustainable energy solutions."}
{"screen_id": "S23703", "doi": "10.1038/s41467-024-52161-4", "title": "Surface fluorination of BiVO4 for the photoelectrochemical oxidation of glycerol to formic acid", "publication_date": "2024-09-17", "type": "article", "venue": "Nature Communications", "language": "en", "abstract": "The C–C bond cleavage of biomass-derived glycerol to generate value-added C1 products remains challenging owing to its slow kinetics. We propose a surface fluorination strategy to construct dynamic dual hydrogen bonds on a semiconducting BiVO4 photoelectrode to overcome the kinetic limit of the oxidation of glycerol to produce formic acid (FA) in acidic media. Intensive spectroscopic characterizations confirm that double hydrogen bonds are formed by the interaction of the F–Bi–F sites of modified BiVO4 with water molecules, and the unique structure promotes the generation of hydroxyl radicals under light irradiation, which accelerates the kinetics of C–C bond cleavage. Theoretical investigations and infrared adsorption spectroscopy reveal that the double hydrogen bond enhances the C=O adsorption of the key intermediate product 1,3-dihydroxyacetone on the Bi–O sites to initiate the FA pathway. We fabricated a self-powered tandem device with an FA selectivity of 79% at the anode and a solar-to-H2 conversion efficiency of 5.8% at the cathode, and these results are superior to most reported results in acidic electrolytes. This work reports a surface fluorination strategy to construct dynamic dual hydrogen bonds on semiconducting BiVO4 photoelectrode for glycerol oxidation to value-added C1 production formic acid in acidic solution."}
{"screen_id": "S17355", "doi": "10.1016/j.hazadv.2022.100204", "title": "Recent advances and remaining barriers to the development of electrospun nanofiber and nanofiber composites for point-of-use and point-of-entry water treatment systems", "publication_date": "2022-11-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Hazardous Materials Advances", "language": "en", "abstract": "In this review, we focus on electrospun nanofibers as a promising material alternative for the niche application of decentralized, point-of-use (POU) and point-of-entry (POE) water treatment systems. We focus our review on prior work with various formulations of electrospun materials, including nanofibers of carbon, pure metal oxides, functionalized polymers, and polymer-metal oxide composites, that exhibit analogous performance to media (e.g., activated carbon, ion exchange resins) commonly used in commercially available, certified POU/POE devices for contaminants including organic pollutants, metals (e.g., lead) and persistent oxyanions (e.g., nitrate). We then analyze the relevant strengths and remaining research and development opportunities of the relevant literature based on an evaluation framework that considers (i) performance comparison to commercial analogs; (ii) appropriate pollutant targets for POU/POE applications; (iii) testing in flow-through systems consistent with POU/POE applications; (iv) consideration of water quality effects; and (v) evaluation of material strength and longevity. We also identify several emerging issues in decentralized water treatment where nanofiber-based POU/POE devices could help meet existing needs including their use for treatment of uranium, disinfection, and in electrochemical treatment systems. To date, research has demonstrated promising material performance toward relevant targets for POU/POE applications, using appropriate aquatic matrices and considering material stability. To fully realize their promise as an emerging treatment technology, our analysis of the available literature reveals the need for more work that benchmarks nanofiber performance against established commercial analogs, as well as fabrication and performance validation at scales and under conditions simulating POU/POE water treatment."}
{"screen_id": "S08627", "doi": "10.48550/arxiv.1910.13948", "title": "A highly integrated, stand-alone photoelectrochemical device for large-scale solar hydrogen production", "publication_date": "2019-10-30", "type": "preprint", "venue": "arXiv (Cornell University)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Although photoelectrochemical water splitting is likely to be an important and powerful tool to provide environmentally friendly hydrogen, most developments in this field have been conducted on a laboratory scale so far. In order for the technology to make a sizeable impact on the energy transition, scaled up devices made of inexpensive and earth abundant materials must be developed. In this work, we demonstrate a scalable (64 cm2 aperture area) artificial photoelectrochemical device composed of triple-junction thin-film silicon solar cells in conjunction with an electrodeposited bifunctional nickel iron molybdenum water splitting catalyst. Our device shows a solar to hydrogen efficiency of up to 4.67% (5.33% active area) without bias assistance and wire connection. Furthermore, gas separation was enabled by incorporating a membrane in a 3D printed device frame."}
{"screen_id": "S26501", "doi": "10.1021/acsomega.5c02679", "title": "Mechanism and Performance of Electrocatalytic Oxidation on RuO2–IrO2@Ti Anode in Alkaline Phenol Wastewater", "publication_date": "2025-07-29", "type": "article", "venue": "ACS Omega", "language": "en", "abstract": "High Resolution Image Download MS PowerPoint Slide Phenol, a highly biotoxic organic pollutant, is widely present in alkaline wastewater from industries such as petrochemical and coking plants. However, its efficient degradation remains challenging with existing technologies. In this study, a RuO 2 –IrO 2 @Ti electrode was fabricated by a coating method, achieving an oxygen evolution potential of 2.0 V vs RHE (Reversible Hydrogen Electrode). Under alkaline conditions (pH = 10) with optimized operating parameters (38 mA/cm 2 current density and 0.25 M NaCl electrolyte), the degradation efficiency of 125 mg/L phenol reached 92.33% within 180 min. Mechanistic investigations, including radical quenching experiments, GC–MS analysis of intermediates, and Fukui function-based reactive site analysis, confirmed that indirect oxidation dominated the degradation process. The primary degradation pathway involved electrophilic substitution by ClO –, synergistically enhanced by oxidation via superoxide radicals ( • O 2 – ). The electrode exhibited outstanding stability, maintaining a degradation efficiency of 90% after 30 consecutive cycles, while the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA) increased from 0.17 cm 2 to 0.44 cm 2, demonstrating its potential for industrial applications."}
{"screen_id": "S02329", "doi": "10.20381/ruor-5303", "title": "Preparation and Optimization of Novel Visible-Light-Active Photocatalysts for Waste-Water Treatment", "publication_date": "2016-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "uO Research (University of Ottawa)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Photocatalysis is a series of advanced light-induced redox reaction processes resulting in the degradation and mineralization of organic pollutants in the presence of oxygen and water. Due to their capability to destroy contaminants under mild conditions, photocatalytic processes have attracted considerable attention in the field of waste-water treatment. However, photocatalytic reactions using the traditional TiO2 photocatalyst suffer from low energy efficiencies under solar irradiation. This low efficiency in the utilization of solar energy lies in its incapability in absorbing visible lights and also the high recombination rate of photo-excited species in photocatalysts. In addition, difficulties in the separation of fluids from micro- or nano-scale catalysts in large scale systems substantially impact cost efficiency in practice. In this thesis, strategies are explored which address these issues in order to improve the feasibility of solar photocatalysis. Two branches of photocatalytic transition metal-oxide semiconductor materials are investigated, namely bismuth-based and silver-based multi-phase heterogeneous photocatalysts. This research is focused on the design of visible-light-active metal-oxide photocatalysts to increase the absorption of visible light and to decrease the rates of electron-hole recombination, resulting in a high photocatalytic efficiency in regards to the degradation of organic pollutants. BiVO4 powder, synthesized from freshly made potassium metavanadate was prepared via hydrothermal treatment, characterized and experimentally investigated for the degradation of rhodamine B under visible light irradiation. The crystal structures and the specific surface areas of the composites, based on BiVO4 single phase crystal structures, are discussed. A multi-phase silver species (Ag2O/Ag3VO4/Ag4V2O7) photocatalyst was synthesized by adjusting the molar ratio of silver to vanadium (Ag to V) via hydrothermal method. The stabilities of as-prepared silver species composites regarding crystal structural changes due to photocatalytic reactions are investigated. Multi-phase silver species composites assisted with graphene oxide (GO-Ag2O/Ag3VO4/AgVO3) were synthesized at room temperature, and exhibited high visible-light photocatalytic activities regarding the degradation of model organic pollutants. The effect of graphene oxide addition on the photoactivity and on the photocorrosion of silver species composites under VLI is explored. The synergistic roles of each individual phase incorporated into the multi-phase composites are discussed regarding the photocatalytic performance."}
{"screen_id": "S25448", "doi": "10.1002/admi.202500010", "title": "Understanding the Role of Copper Oxidation State on a TiO2/ZSM‐5 Catalyst for Photocatalytic CO2 Reduction to Methanol", "publication_date": "2025-04-08", "type": "article", "venue": "Advanced Materials Interfaces", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract This study explores the enhancement of photocatalytic CO2 reduction to methanol using Cu‐doped TiO2/ZSM‐5 catalysts. The catalysts are synthesized by wet impregnation, and the effects of calcination temperature and Cu doping are investigated. Comprehensive characterization techniques coupled with density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that the Cuδ+/TiO2/ZSM‐5 (CTZ‐1) catalyst exhibits the highest photocatalytic activity, yielding methanol at 0.219 mmol gcatalyst−1 h−1, significantly outperforming other variants. The superior performance is attributed to the increased basicity, specific surface area, unique core–shell structure morphology, and the presence of Ti3+ and Cuδ+ species, which facilitate efficient electron–hole separation. The catalysts also demonstrate stable performance over multiple cycles. DFT calculations indicate that the CO2 reduction to methanol is energetically favored at the Cuδ+/TiO2 interface. This work highlights the potential of Cuδ+/TiO2/ZSM‐5 catalysts in efficient and stable photocatalytic CO2 conversion, paving the way for further optimization of Cuδ+ loading and doping strategies to enhance photocatalytic performance."}
{"screen_id": "S16373", "doi": "10.7302/2691", "title": "Non-Hydrolytic Synthesis of Visible Light Active Stable Metal Oxides and Metal Oxide Coatings for Fuel Forming Reactions", "publication_date": "2021-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "Deep Blue (University of Michigan)", "language": "en", "abstract": "This thesis addresses current challenges in the synthesis and photochemistry of metal oxide and metal chalcogenide materials, while providing potentially useful avenues for expanding their application. While water splitting is a means to achieve solar fuel production in the formation of hydrogen gas (H2), the slow kinetics of water oxidation limit large scale utility. As a replacement, the transformation of organic substrates into value-added chemicals has emerged as a scalable alternative. Materials commonly employed for this strategy are metal oxide and metal chalcogenide semiconductors that through excitation from solar light can generate charge carriers capable of facilitating redox chemistry. However, they are limited by energy barriers due to their large band gap, poor charge carrier mobility and photocorrosion during the catalytic transformation. While conventional synthesis eventually leads to pure materials, the attractive aspect of tuning the particle’s size and composition comes with great difficulty. This work has focused on investigating synthetic routes for preparing phase pure, metal oxide semiconductor nanomaterials using solvent-assisted low temperature methods through controlled microwave heating. With the aid of direct heating through microwave irradiation in non-aqueous media, nanocrystalline tungsten (VI) oxide is achievable in 30 minutes at 200°C, faster and at lower temperatures than conventional methods. Forming in a platelet morphology, these particles are 20 nm with a surface area of 37 m2g–1 WO3. These nanoplatelets are active for the photocatalytic oxidation of the benzylamine (rate constant, k of 0.021 h–1 WO3), benzyl alcohol (k of 2.6x10–3 h–1), and 5-(hydroxymethyl)-2- furfural (k of 0.01 h–1) using 10 mg of WO3 with 2 mL of 0.250 M substrate in acetonitrile and a 150 mW•cm–2 460 nm blue LED source. These rate constants are larger than those observed for commercially prepared, micron-sized WO3. XPS analysis shows that during catalysis, the concentration of W5+ on the surface increases, but the nanoplatelets are stable under these reaction conditions. The morphology and size of the particles are retained through the reactions. Moreover, the nanoplatelets are recyclable—showing no loss in activity for four reaction cycles. Expanding the synthetic scope, through microwave heating in ethanol and with subsequent annealing, crystalline MgFe2O4 nanoparticles are produced rapidly and in high yields >99%. Under varied annealing temperatures, the degree of Mg and Fe site inversion changes the optical, electronic, and composition of the nanoparticles. A small particle size of ∼10 nm is achievable with the aid of an ammonium salt mineralizer that caps the particles during nucleation and growth. Particles with the lowest inversion parameter and limited sintering upon annealing (at 600 °C) exhibit the greatest production of hydroxyl radicals under visible light illumination. As such, these particles also facilitate the degradation of methylene blue dye (rate constant k of 0.061 h–1) faster than those particles annealed at higher temperature with 20 mg of catalyst. This synthetic protocol is successively expanded to other ternary metal ferrites with similar crystalline structures. Finally, from the knowledge gained in this work, the synthesis and photostability of metal chalcogenide materials can be explored for routes to support large scale use. Known approaches to surface modification of nanoparticles are adapted to design complex core@shell structures of well-studied photocatalytic semiconductors. Insights into how the synthetic design can be improved are provided based on the observations of incomplete shell coverage of cadmium selenide (CdSe)."}
{"screen_id": "S19264", "doi": "10.1002/advs.202301706", "title": "High‐Valence Oxides for High Performance Oxygen Evolution Electrocatalysis", "publication_date": "2023-05-30", "type": "article", "venue": "Advanced Science", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract Valence tuning of transition metal oxides is an effective approach to design high‐performance catalysts, particularly for the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) that underpins solar/electric water splitting and metal‐air batteries. Recently, high‐valence oxides (HVOs) are reported to show superior OER performance, in association with the fundamental dynamics of charge transfer and the evolution of the intermediates. Particularly considered are the adsorbate evolution mechanism (AEM) and the lattice oxygen‐mediated mechanism (LOM). High‐valence states enhance the OER performance mainly by optimizing the eg‐orbital filling, promoting the charge transfer between the metal d band and oxygen p band. Moreover, HVOs usually show an elevated O 2p band, which triggers the lattice oxygen as the redox center and enacts the efficient LOM pathway to break the “scaling” limitation of AEM. In addition, oxygen vacancies, induced by the overall charge‐neutrality, also promote the direct oxygen coupling in LOM. However, the synthesis of HVOs suffers from relatively large thermodynamic barrier, which makes their preparation difficult. Hence, the synthesis strategies of the HVOs are discussed to guide further design of the HVO electrocatalysts. Finally, further challenges and perspectives are outlined for potential applications in energy conversion and storage."}
