{"screen_id": "S29327", "doi": null, "title": "Linear Correlations between Adsorption Energies and HOMO Levels for the Adsorption of Small Molecules on TiO2 Surfaces", "publication_date": "2019-08-29", "type": "article", "venue": "Institutional Repositories DataBase (IRDB)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Adsorption is a fundamental step in catalysis on a solid surface, and therefore, its understanding is important for explaining its behavior. This work investigated the adsorption of various small molecules, including H-2, N-2, CO, CO2, CH4, NH3, H2O, H2S, dimethyl sulfoxide, alkanes, alkenes, alkynes, aromatic compounds, alcohols, aldehydes, ketones, nitriles, carboxylic acids, amides, and amines, on the anatase (101) and rutile (110) surfaces of TiO2, using periodic density functional theory calculations and statistical methods. Adsorption energies were computed at the same level of theory to obtain a clean and consistent data set. A linear relationship was observed between the adsorption energies of these molecules and their highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) levels, whereas no obvious correlation was evident for the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital levels. Improved correlations between the adsorption energies and HOMO levels were generated by dividing these, molecules into two subgroups: hydrocarbons and heteroatom- containing compounds. Interactions between frontier molecular orbitals and the surfaces were considered, to gain a better understanding of the significant correlations that were identified. The data show that these relationships can be primarily ascribed to the interactions between the HOMO of the small molecule and conduction state of the TiO2 surface. The statistical analysis using machine learning demonstrated that the HOMO and dipole moment are the first and second most important properties, respectively, in terms of rationalizing and predicting the adsorption energies."}
{"screen_id": "S02819", "doi": "10.15541/jim20150492", "title": "Preparation of Pt/Ti Electrodes Preferred Growth along the [111] Direction and Its Electrocatalytic Activity for Chlorine Evolution", "publication_date": "2016-01-01", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Inorganic Materials", "language": "en", "abstract": "武汉轻工大学 化学与环境工程学院"}
{"screen_id": "S26724", "doi": "10.3390/nano15161255", "title": "Interface Charge Transfer Engineering in NiFe Layered Double Hydroxide-Cs0.32WO3 Heterostructures for Enhanced Oxygen Evolution Reaction", "publication_date": "2025-08-14", "type": "article", "venue": "Nanomaterials", "language": "en", "abstract": "Electrochemical water splitting for hydrogen production is considered a key pathway for achieving sustainable energy conversion. However, the sluggish reaction kinetics of the oxygen evolution reaction (OER) and high overpotentials severely hinder the large-scale application of water electrolysis technology. Nickel–iron layered double hydroxide (NiFe-LDH) has gained attention as a promising non-precious metal OER catalyst due to its abundant active sites and good intrinsic activity. However, its relatively low conductivity and charge transfer efficiency limit the improvement of catalytic performance. Therefore, this study used a simple hydrothermal method to generate a NiFe-LDH/Cs0.32WO3 heterojunction composite catalyst, relying on the excellent electronic conductivity of Cs0.32WO3 to improve overall charge transfer efficiency. According to electrochemical testing results, the modified NiFe-LDH/Cs0.32WO3-20 mg achieved a low overpotential of 349 mV at a current density of 10 mA cm−2, a Tafel slope of 67.0 mV dec−1, and a charge transfer resistance of 65.1 Ω, which represent decreases of 39 mV, 23.1%, and 40%, respectively, compared to pure NiFe-LDH. The key to performance improvement lies in the tightly bonded heterojunction interface between Cs0.32WO3 and NiFe-LDH. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) shows a distinct interfacial charge transfer phenomenon, with a notable negative shift of the W4f peak (0.85 eV), indicating the directional transfer of electrons from Cs0.32WO3 to NiFe-LDH. Under the influence of the built-in electric field within the heterojunction, this interfacial charge redistribution improved the electronic structure of NiFe-LDH, increased the proportion of high-valent metal ions, and significantly enhanced the OER reaction kinetics. This study provides new insights for the preparation of efficient heterojunction electrocatalysts."}
{"screen_id": "S07902", "doi": "10.1016/j.gexplo.2019.06.009", "title": "Role of microorganisms in rehabilitation of mining sites, focus on Sub Saharan African countries", "publication_date": "2019-06-25", "type": "article", "venue": "Journal of Geochemical Exploration", "language": "en", "abstract": ""}
{"screen_id": "S02294", "doi": null, "title": "The geochemistry and geochronology of the Bong uranium deposit, Thelon basin, Nunavut, Canada", "publication_date": "2013-04-04", "type": "dissertation", "venue": "Mspace (University of Manitoba)", "language": "en", "abstract": "The Thelon basin, Nunavut, is similar to the uranium-producing Athabasca Basin, Saskatchewan; however, the uranium deposits associated with the Thelon Basin are poorly understood. The objective of this research is to develop a genetic model for the Bong uranium deposit, located in the Northeast Thelon region on the Kiggavik project of AREVA Resources Canada Inc. The Bong deposit formed in four stages. The first stage involved silicification of the host rocks. Stage 2 is characterized by pervasive argillization of the host rock and the formation of Stage A uraninite in veins and coating graphite (~1120 Ma). This stage is characterized by ~225°C fluids with calculated δ18O and δD values of -7.9‰ and -100.9‰, respectively. During Stage 3, organic matter formed, along fractures in permeable clay-rich alteration zones. At ~1040 Ma, an oxidizing fluid event (Stage 4) reconcentrated uraninite into redox fronts (Stage B) and altered Stage A uraninite to uranophane."}
{"screen_id": "S06778", "doi": "10.1021/acsomega.8b02565", "title": "Effects of Metal Combinations on the Electrocatalytic Properties of Transition-Metal-Based Layered Double Hydroxides for Water Oxidation: A Perspective with Insights", "publication_date": "2018-12-04", "type": "article", "venue": "ACS Omega", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract Transition-metal-based layered double hydroxides (TM LDHs) have emerged as highly efficient water oxidation catalysts. They are promising and have the potential to replace the rare and expensive precious metal-based ones such as RuO2 and IrO2, which have been well established. In this perspective, we will summarize the current development of TM LDHs as oxygen evolution reaction (OER) catalysts toward electrochemical water splitting. Particular emphasis will be placed on the roles of the transition-metal cations and the effects of their combination on their catalytic performance for the OER. It is hoped that this perspective will provide fundamental guidelines for future researches in this booming area."}
{"screen_id": "S09644", "doi": "10.3390/molecules25081943", "title": "Phase Transformations and Photocatalytic Activity of Nanostructured Y2O3/TiO2-Y2TiO5 Ceramic Such as Doped with Carbon Nanotubes", "publication_date": "2020-04-22", "type": "article", "venue": "Molecules", "language": "en", "abstract": "This work is devoted to the study of phase transition processes in nanostructured ceramics of the Y2O3/TiO2-Y2TiO5 type doped with carbon nanotubes as a result of thermal annealing, as well as to the assessment of the prospects of the effect of phase composition on photocatalytic activity. By the method of X-ray phase analysis, it was found that an increase in the annealing temperature leads to the formation of the orthorhombic phase Y2TiO5, as well as structural ordering. Based on the obtained UV spectra, the band gap was calculated, which varies from 2.9 eV (initial sample) to 2.1 eV (annealed at a temperature of 1000 °C). During photocatalytic tests, it was established that the synthesized nanostructured ceramics Y2O3/TiO2-Y2TiO5 doped CNTs show a fairly good photocatalytic activity in the range of 60–90% decomposition of methyl orange."}
{"screen_id": "S05419", "doi": "10.3390/nano8010028", "title": "UV-Vis-Induced Degradation of Phenol over Magnetic Photocatalysts Modified with Pt, Pd, Cu and Au Nanoparticles", "publication_date": "2018-01-07", "type": "article", "venue": "Nanomaterials", "language": "en", "abstract": "The combination of TiO₂ photocatalyst and magnetic oxide nanoparticles enhances the separation and recoverable properties of nanosized TiO₂ photocatalyst. Metal-modified (Me = Pd, Au, Pt, Cu) TiO₂/SiO₂@Fe₃O₄ nanocomposites were prepared by an ultrasonic-assisted sol-gel method. All prepared samples were characterized by X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) analysis, Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET) method, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM), Mott-Schottky analysis and photoluminescence spectroscopy (PL). Phenol oxidation pathways of magnetic photocatalysts modified with Pt, Pd, Cu and Au nanoparticles proceeded by generation of reactive oxygen species, which oxidized phenol to benzoquinone, hydroquinone and catechol. Benzoquinone and maleic acid were products, which were determined in the hydroquinone oxidation pathway. The highest mineralization rate was observed for Pd-TiO₂/SiO₂@Fe₃O₄ and Cu-TiO₂/SiO₂@Fe₃O₄ photocatalysts, which produced the highest concentration of catechol during photocatalytic reaction. For Pt-TiO₂/SiO₂@Fe₃O₄ nanocomposite, a lack of catechol after 60 min of irradiation resulted in low mineralization rate (CO₂ formation). It is proposed that the enhanced photocatalytic activity of palladium and copper-modified photocatalysts is related to an increase in the amount of adsorption sites and efficient charge carrier separation, whereas the keto-enol tautomeric equilibrium retards the rate of phenol photomineralization on Au-TiO₂/SiO₂@Fe₃O₄. The magnetization hysteresis loop indicated that the obtained hybrid photocatalyst showed magnetic properties and therefore could be easily separated after treatment process."}
{"screen_id": "S08313", "doi": "10.1021/acs.jpcc.9b06620", "title": "Exploring the Catalytic Properties of Unsupported and TiO2-Supported Cu5 Clusters: CO2 Decomposition to CO and CO2 Photoactivation", "publication_date": "2019-08-29", "type": "article", "venue": "The Journal of Physical Chemistry C", "language": "en", "abstract": "Abstract In this work, we explore the decomposition of CO2 on unsupported and TiO2-supported Cu5 clusters via computational modeling, using both finite cluster and periodic slab structures of the rutile TiO2(110) surface. While the energy needed for C═O bond breaking is already significantly reduced upon adsorption onto the unsupported metal catalyst (it drops from 7.8 to 1.3 eV), gas desorption before bond activation is still the inevitable outcome due to the remaining barrier height even at 0 K. However, when the Cu5 cluster itself is supported on TiO2, reactant and product adsorption is strongly enhanced, the barrier for bond breaking is further reduced, and a spontaneous decomposition of the molecule is predicted. This finding is linked to our previous work on charge-transfer processes in the Cu5–TiO2 system triggered by solar photons, since a combination of both phenomena at suitable temperatures would allow for a photoinduced activation of CO2 by sunlight."}
{"screen_id": "S20363", "doi": "10.58837/chula.the.2017.78", "title": "Effects of titanium dioxide structure and cobalt addition on the catalytic properties of ru/tio2 in the selective hydrogenation of furfural to furfuryl alcohol", "publication_date": "2017-01-01", "type": "dissertation", "venue": null, "language": "en", "abstract": "Furfuryl alcohol, an important intermediate for the production of many fine chemicals, is typically produced by the selective hydrogenation of lignocellulosic biomass-derived furfural using supported metal catalysts. In this research, 1.5%wt Ru catalysts supported on nanocrystalline TiO2 were prepared by incipient wetness impregnation method. The effects of crystallographic of TiO2 and Co addition in the range of 0.2-0.8 wt% on the catalytic properties of Ru/TiO2 were investigated in the selective hydrogenation of furfural to furfural alcohol at 50°C, 20 bar of H2, and 2 h reaction time. It was found that Ru supported on anatase phase TiO2 exhibited the highest conversion of furfural and selectivity of furfurly alcohol at 32 and 90%, respectively. The anatase phase of TiO2 may promote adsorption of hydrogen atoms than rutile. The addition of a small amount of Co in the Ru/TiO2 anatase improved the catalytic activity and furfurly alcohol selectivity with the 1.5%Ru-0.6%Co/TiO2 showed the best catalytic performances with 92% conversion of furfural and 97.5% furfurly alcohol selectivity. It is suggested that Co addition increased the Ru-Co particles size and enhanced the interaction between Ru and Co as shown by the TEM, H2-TPR, and XPS results."}
{"screen_id": "S20403", "doi": "10.5194/ejm-35-773-2023", "title": "Metamorphic titanite–zircon pseudomorphs after igneous zirconolite", "publication_date": "2023-09-19", "type": "article", "venue": "European Journal of Mineralogy", "language": "en", "abstract": "The formation of metamorphic zircon after baddeleyite is a well-known reaction that can be used to date the metamorphism of igneous silica-undersaturated rocks. By contrast, metamorphic minerals formed after igneous zirconolite have rarely been reported. In this paper, we document metamorphic titanite + zircon pseudomorphs formed from the metamorphic breakdown of igneous zirconolite in syenodiorite and syenite, in the southeastern Sveconorwegian Province, Sweden. Water-rich fluid influx during tectonometamorphism in epidote–amphibolite-facies metamorphic conditions caused the release of silica during a metamorphic reaction involving igneous feldspar and pyroxene and the simultaneous breakdown of igneous Zr-bearing phases. Typical titanite + zircon intergrowths are elongated or platy titanite crystals speckled with tiny inclusions of zircon. Most intergrowths are smaller than 15 µm; some are subrounded in shape. Locally, bead-like grains of titanite and zircon are intergrown with silicate minerals. The precursor igneous zirconolite was found preserved only in a sample of near-pristine igneous syenodiorite, as remnant grains of mainly < 2 µm in size. Two somewhat larger crystals, 8 and 12 µm, allowed semiquantitative confirmation using microprobe analysis. Analogous with zircon pseudomorphs after baddeleyite, titanite + zircon pseudomorphs after zirconolite potentially offer dating of the metamorphic reaction, although the small size of the crystals makes dating with today's techniques challenging. The scarcity of reports of zirconolite and pseudomorphs reflects that they are either rare or possibly overlooked."}
{"screen_id": "S20881", "doi": "10.48550/arxiv.2311.03387", "title": "Determination of droplet size from wide-angle light scattering image data using convolutional neural networks", "publication_date": "2023-11-03", "type": "preprint", "venue": "arXiv (Cornell University)", "language": "en", "abstract": "Wide-angle light scattering (WALS) offers the possibility of a highly temporally and spatially resolved measurement of droplets in spray-based methods for nanoparticle synthesis. The size of these droplets is a critical variable affecting the final properties of synthesized materials such as hetero-aggregates. However, conventional methods for determining droplet sizes from WALS image data are labor-intensive and may introduce biases, particularly when applied to complex systems like spray flame synthesis (SFS). To address these challenges, we introduce a fully automatic machine learning-based approach that employs convolutional neural networks (CNNs) in order to streamline the droplet sizing process. This CNN-based methodology offers further advantages: it requires few manual labels and can utilize transfer learning, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods, specifically with respect to efficiency. To evaluate the performance of our machine learning models, we consider WALS data from an ethanol spray flame process at various heights above the burner surface (HABs), where the models are trained and cross-validated on a large dataset comprising nearly 35000 WALS images."}
{"screen_id": "S13483", "doi": "10.37394/232017.2021.12.15", "title": "Systematic Structural and Optical Characterization of TiO2 Nanofibres Synthesised by Electrospinning", "publication_date": "2021-09-24", "type": "article", "venue": "WSEAS TRANSACTIONS ON ELECTRONICS", "language": "en", "abstract": "TiO2 nanofibres were synthesised by means of the electrospinning technique, which were annealed at high temperatures to achieve the crystalline phase transformation. The chemical stoichiometry of electrospun TiO2 nanofibres was estimated by EDS, finding that at low annealing temperatures excess of oxygen was detected and at high temperatures excess of titanium that originates oxygen vacancies. TEM images show clearly the formation of TiO2 nanofibres that exhibit a homogeneous and continuous aspect without the presence of crystalline defects, whose surface morphology depends strongly on the annealing temperature. The crystalline phase transformation was studied by Raman spectroscopy, which revealed that annealed TiO2 nanofibres showed a crystalline phase transformation from pure anatase to, first a mix of anatase-rutile, then pure rutile as the annealing temperature increased, which was corroborated by X-ray diffraction and high-resolution TEM microscopy. The average grain size, inside the nanofibres, increased with the crystalline phase transformation from 10 to 24 nm for anatase-TiO2 and from 30 to 47 nm for rutile-TiO2, estimated by using the Scherrer-Debye equation. The band gap energy (Eg), obtained from optical absorption spectra, decreases monotonically, where a local minimum is observed at 700 °C, which is ranged in 3.75  Eg  2.42 eV, caused by the anatase → rutile crystalline phase transformation. The photoluminescence shows that radiative bands present a gradual red-shift as the annealing temperature increases due to the continuous change of Eg."}
{"screen_id": "S30652", "doi": "10.1021/acs.inorgchem.6c02565", "title": "Doping Ruthenium Oxides with P-Block Metals Enables Water Oxidation via O–O Coupling Reactions", "publication_date": "2026-08-04", "type": "article", "venue": "Inorganic Chemistry", "language": "en", "abstract": "The practical deployment of proton exchange membrane electrolyzers is limited by the lack of highly efficient and durable anodic electrocatalysts. Here, we report an indium-doping strategy that promotes O-O coupling at bimetallic sites in RuO2, thereby enhancing oxygen evolution reaction (OER) performance. As a result, the designed In-RuO2 catalyst achieves an improved balance between activity and durability. It exhibits low overpotentials for both the OER and hydrogen evolution reaction (HER) over a wide pH range, requiring overpotentials of only 227 mV and 229 mV for the OER and 33 mV and 20 mV for the HER at 10 mA cm-2 in 0.5 M H2SO4 and 1.0 M KOH, respectively. In addition, it maintains stable operation for 90 h during the OER process in acidic media. In situ experiments, combined with theoretical calculations, suggest that In-Ru binuclear sites favor the oxide pathway mechanism (OPM) during OER. Furthermore, the incorporation of In atoms suppresses Ru dissolution. This study provides insight into the regulation of the reaction pathway through atomic doping in RuO2 and offers guidance for the design of OER catalysts with improved activity and stability."}
{"screen_id": "S05038", "doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.7b02563", "title": "Improving the Efficiency of Carbon Cloth for the Electrogeneration of H2O2: Role of Polytetrafluoroethylene and Carbon Black Loading", "publication_date": "2017-10-17", "type": "article", "venue": "Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research", "language": "en", "abstract": "In this work, H 2 O 2 is electrogenerated in the cathodic compartment of a divided filter-press cell with a carbon cloth in the configuration of a gas diffusion electrode using air as the oxygen source. The effect of Teflon content was studied, and it was found that the appropriate content is within the range 10–20%. The production was greatly enhanced after the air-brushing deposition (and subsequent annealing) of simply 0.5 mg cm –2 of carbon black. Higher additions clogged the pores and as a result were counterproductive in terms of H 2 O 2 generation. At a current density of 25 mA cm –2, the production rate was 15 mg of H 2 O 2 h –1 cm –2 with a current efficiency close to 100%. Production rate increased with current density up to more than 40 mg of H 2 O 2 h –1 cm –2 at 87.5 mA cm –2 . The good performance and ease of preparation of this electrode make it an interesting alternative to generate hydrogen peroxide for electro-Fenton processes."}
